gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am pleased to have this opportunity to address the Committee for the first time, and I crave hon. Members indulgence. I am doubly pleased, when I consider how many new Members are still waiting to make their maiden speeches. I represent Dunfermline Burghs, in which constituency is situated the City and Royal Burgh of Dunfermline. There we have the ancient abbey which is a great part of Scottish history. The abbey is not a standing monument to the past, but a living organism and it plays a very great part in the current and religious life of the community even today. There are, of course, three other small burghs in the constituency. Two of them, Lochgelly and Cowdenbeath, are at present facing economic and social difficulties due to the decline of the coal mining industry on which the area has been solely dependent for quite a number of generations. As Member for Dunfermline Burghs I follow Dr. Alan Thompson; and before Dr. Thompson, Mr. James Clunie; and before Mr. Clunie, Mr. William Watson, whom I am quite sure many Members still in the House remember with great respect. These three hon. Gentlemen made a great contribution to the business of this House and served their constituency well. I am sure that all members of the Committee will wish Dr. Alan Thompson every success in resuming what I feel sure must be a brilliant academic career. Looking back on the record of my immediate precedessor's maiden speech I find that he made it from the Liberal benches, a mistake for which he profusely apologised. I could not possibly have made this same mistake, for I have seen, since I came to this House, that the Liberals are still on the other side of the House and that Dr. Thompson's colleagues and many new ones, including myself, are firmly—despite the small majority—established on the Government side. I should also inform the House that I was until a few weeks ago a miner working in the bowels of the earth, an occupation I have followed for just over 40 years. To be suddenly transported from a working environment of that nature to the most important institution in the land, with its long history and tradition, was certainly, to put it mildly, a most interesting and exciting prospect. An hon. Member is advised to make a maiden speech non-controversial. On the other hand, he is informed that maiden speeches are allowed to proceed without interruption. The latter could be interpreted as some sort of licence, but, if so, it is not my intention to abuse it. To be non-controversial in a Budget debate seems virtually impossible, so if I transgress traditional procedures a little I plead to be excused. The Budget proposals have my support. A supplementary Budget was necessary. By taking early action in an effort to begin an attack on the adverse balance of payments situation, the Government have again shown their determination to get Britain on its feet again. Everyone knows that desperate situations need desperate remedies, and it is unfortunate that some people have to suffer in consequence of the measures taken this time. I particularly welcome the proposed increases in National Insurance and associated benefits, particularly the increase in the amount for old-age pensioners. I have had close and practical experience of old people, and I know their difficulties in maintaining decent and civilised standards. This prompts me to say that the Government are doing no more than they said they would during the recent election campaign: that immediate attention would be paid to this outstanding social problem. Tax increases are often a cause of resentment, but it seems to me that those who are now asked to pay more are more able to pay the increase. Due to closure of pits, my constituency is now a low-wage area, but I am sure that those of my constituents who suffer from this mild taxation increase will accept it readily, in the knowledge that it is inevitable and that the burden is placed on those who can the better afford it. A big majority of taxpayers will not be affected by this new taxation, and that is how it should be. While I noted with some regret that there was no mention in the Gracious Speech of a national fuel policy, I am heartened to find that the increase in oil duty will not adversely affect the operations of the coal mining industry. Any budgetary measures that promise for the future some hope that the Government of the day will formulate some regional planning are acceptable to me. The lack of alternative employment to offset the rapid decline in the coal mining industry in certain parts of my constituency constitutes a major social problem. That problem can only be solved by the introduction of new and modern industry which will replace the old and dying industry and thus bring the constituency back to its former position of being considered a high wage area. As it is, too many of the working population there are earning too little; many of them are working in Her Majesty's dockyards, in local authority public services, and the like, which do not pay high wages. I thank the Committee very much for the attention that it has given to me.
