gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
With the exception of the Foreign Secretary's speech, which dealt with a wide range of subjects, this Debate has dealt mainly with the difficulties of English speaking peoples and Russia, and I want to narrow it down again to the point where so many of these difficulties are now concentrated—I mean Germany. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) suggested that the root of most of our difficulties with Russia in Europe lay in the fear of German military aggression and the revival of German militarism. I entirely agree, but the corollary of that statement is that, unless the Allies can form a concerted policy towards Germany, unless they can make up their minds what they are going to do with Germany, none of those difficulties, either the immediate difficulties or the long-term, can be solved. The reason I burden the House with a maiden speech on this subject is that for four years, up to May of this year, I was a prisoner of war in Germany, and during that time I learnt, or thought I learnt, certain1 things about the Germans and their character which I felt might be of value to this House in considering such a policy. I should perhaps add, by way of explanation, that prisoners of war were not quite so cut off as many people may imagine. They obtained a certain amount of information from German newspapers and radio, and at all times they were able to correct their impressions by secret radio. They lived in many camps in the different parts of the country in which they were imprisoned. The guards were frequently changed, and they consisted very often of fighting troops who came from many parts of the front and had moved all over Germany. As it was the duty of prisoners to keep in close touch with their guards, they managed to keep pretty well informed. Towards the end of the war thousands of prisoners were set on the march across Germany and one mingled with the population, lived in their   houses, marched with them in the many caravans and covered wagons which streamed across the country. In that way I was able to feel the pulse of the nation with an intensity which it must have been very difficult for anybody living there in peace time to do, except over a very long period of time. In case I may seem in some way to be tainted in my views towards Germany and the Germans, may I say that no one who has been a prisoner of war can like the Germans? But the first point I want to make is that the Germans in this war were a united people, and they were united not by terror, and not by any deep belief in the principle of National Socialism, but by ties of blood. When the German armies were to be successful nearly all Germans gave lip-service to National Socalism, but after Stalingrad they changed very quickly. Afterwards the great majority of Germans over 30 were, 1 believe, against the policy of their Government and knew that they were in for defeat. Yet they clung together and went on doing their jobs, not from fear of being shot—to most of them that was the remotest possibility—but simply because they felt that they were one people. They had committed themselves, and they must stand or fall together. It is difficult to convey briefly the intensity of that feeling. Perhaps I can do it in another way. One has read since coming back to this country, and indeed before, a great deal about the dogged determination and the good humour with which the British people faced the trials of 1940 and other times. I can only say that when, unrecognised, one sat in a German air-raid shelter, with British bombers overhead, and heard the people talking about the size of the bombs—and they were very big bombs—or heard them discussing what they had found in the ruins that morning, or comparing the relative merits of cobblestones and concrete as a mattress to sleep on, one had the impression that one was experiencing at first-hand, though in a different setting, many of the feelings and the sentiments one had read about the people of England. The German people in this war were, in my opinion, as united a people as the British or any other people who fought in this war. The reason I make this point is, that one has heard and still hears it argued that that is not so. Indeed, the only firm policy towards Germany which I have seen put forward seems to be based on the opposite argument, namely, that the history of the German race has shown that it has no sense of unity and that it is now possible to continue the partition of Germany, to lop off this or that part of it and, without transporting the people living there, to put them under this or that foreign sovereignty, whether international or not. I believe that that is a profound mistake. It is also a profound mistake to think that, because Germany is prostrate and because her people are exhausted, her sense of unity is dead. If the Government support a policy of that kind, a policy which contemplates the further partition of Germany, they arc, in my opinion, laying in store for themselves very great trouble in Europe, besides which the trouble we now have in Poland, Palestine, or other countries will seem insignificant. Were the only alternative the recrudescence of German militarism, that would be the better of two evils, but I do not believe that that is the only alternative. My second point is that, contrary to an opinion I hear expressed very often here, I do not believe that National Socialism in German}' was more than skin-deep. It never became what democracy has become to this country, a deep political faith. The reason that I adduce for that opinion is not simply observation. We did have, or were able to have, practical tests. I do not believe that any deep political faith goes along with corruption. If I understood the sense of my reading correctly, the people, whether Communists or Catholics, who fought in Spain were not as a whole corruptible. I do not believe that the British people who fought this war or the British soldiers who guarded German prisoners were as a whole corruptible. Yet it is my experience and that of very many others who have had similar dealings with Germans, that almost all Germans—and this goes equally for the S.S. or the Gestapo—if you could have long enough with them, were corruptible. And that means, surely that the German people never had any deep political beliefs. And if that seems very slight evidence, it is borne out by the whole history of the National Socialist Party, by the way they   feathered their own nests, by the way they bullied the German people, by the way, indeed, they were increasingly, before the end, loathed and despised by the whole of the German people. The truth about Germany was, and is now even after the war, that racially she has a strong sense of unity, but that politically she is still very immature. The Germans are not at heart either democrats or National Socialists, Communists or anything else. Politically, they are almost a blank. Surely, this is a great opportunity. We have, for the first time in our history, complete and absolute power over Germany. We have, with all the necessary safeguards, with such absolute power, a chance to inculcate, gradually and slowly, the principles of democracy. We have a chance to encourage the Germans to practice these principles. That must be the aim of the United Nations Organisation, and, with regard to the German people, there is no other aim worthy of that organisation. I hope the House will not think that I am in any way soft towards Germans. I have not even very great sympathy with what they are going through now. I have intense sympathy with what many of the other countries in Europe are now going through, and I was imprisoned in some places by them and saw how people were treated. But what I am asking in particular is, that the Government should make it plain, first, that they will not support any policy of partition, of further partition of Germany in Europe; second, that their long-term aim—and they should make this clear now— is, that under Allied control the German State should be reconstituted; third, that that State should, for its boundaries, have broadly the line of the Rhine to the line of the Oder and Neisse and should include the Ruhr; and fourth, that the aim of that State, and of its creators, should be the new nationalism of which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington spoke earlier in this Debate, that the aim in recreating the German State should be to begin in Germany, which is prostrate and which we can influence, a shared sovereignty in the many things which are common to so many countries of Europe. I know there are difficulties. The existence of the zones themselves and the  different points of view in those zones create great difficulties, but surely the main difficulty there is the feeling that nobody knows quite what the other fellow wants. Surely a clear, long-term policy would allay that suspicion. Also there is the difficulty of France, which would probably not immediately support such a policy, but has it not been the case in the past that what France has lacked from us has been any clear policy towards Germany and any clear set of undertakings towards Germany? But the policy I am proposing would surely fulfil both those functions, and I cannot help thinking that if we could convince France of that she would be reassured. Lastly, there are the difficulties with Russia, but what Russia is afraid of besides a recrudescence of German militarism is, surely, a Western bloc. A policy which offers to Russia a share not merely in control of her own zone but a share in the future education and elevation of the rest of Germany would make it clear that there is no sort of a Western bloc. Since Russia has herself admitted the idea of some central administration for Germany, surely she must also have some such idea in the back of her own mind. I do not despair of the German people. They have great qualities and they have potentialities. If we can achieve the degree of co-operation for which I am asking, and if we are prepared for a long occupation and for the necessary safeguards against the recrudescence of her militarism, I believe, the Germans being as pliable as they are, that we can remould Germany into what she should long ago have been, the most productive of the peace loving nations. I believe this policy is in line with the Charter. I believe the German people, under supervision and tuition, are capable of its achievement, and I believe that if it is achieved it will not only cement the relations of the Allies but, perhaps more quickly than any other measure, lay the foundations of a new world order.
