gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time, Mr. Speaker, that I have had the privilege of addressing this House, and it is with a very real sense of awe that I ask hon. Members to  extend to me the indulgence which is customarily accorded to maiden speakers. I have the honour of representing the North-East division of Bristol. It is just under two years since I first set foot in that city and saw for the first time Down-end and the house where Dr. W. G. Grace lived and the cricket field where he played, and Eastville, the home of the leading football club in the West Country. Since that time, I have come to appreciate how much Bristol, despite the ravages of war, has, with its venturesome spirit of old, regained its rightful place among the great cities of the country. I am, indeed, very honoured to call myself an adopted citizen of Bristol. I should like to preface my remarks by paying a tribute to that body of people who have, over a considerable period of time, come to be known as ""the City."" Their resourcefulness, initiative and integrity have been, and still are, the admiration of the world. I often feel that the part they have played in our country's history, and still play, is not recognised as much as it should be. Yet, on the periphery, there are a few individuals whose actions do not conform to the very high unwritten standards that the City sets itself. I deplore the fact that these individuals exist. It is through them, and because of them, that adverse publicity has been occasioned in the Press which, unfortunately, is not limited to them alone. It is with this very small group of people that the Bill is concerned. As the law now stands, it is perfectly possible to form a private company with a few hundred pounds of capital and, having done so, to advertise or solicit through the mails for deposits of unlimited amount from the public. Today, as my hon. Friend the Member for Torrington (Mr. P. Browne) has said, we see advertisements offering 5½ per cent., 6 per cent., or even 7 per cent. rate of interest. Indeed, over the past eighteen months, the rate of interest has been as high as 12 per cent. These inducements may well tempt an inexperienced and largely unsophisticated saver to risk his money with such companies. Some of these companies describe themselves as merchant bankers or as industrial bankers, no doubt to lend themselves an aura of prestige. But, when the saver places his money with   them, behind the facade there remains only the few hundred pounds to which he may look if, in fact, the company fails to prosper. At the same time, the number of potential depositors has greatly increased. There has been a considerable rise in our national income over the past ten years. I have no wish to be at all controversial about this, but it is a fact that in my constituency many tens of thousands of people have a far larger disposable income than they have ever had in the past, even after my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has taken his—or what one might call the lion's—share. Some of this increase in disposable income has gone towards furnishing the necessities of life, but in recent years there has been more money left over for saving than there has ever been before, and more people are now saving than ever saved in the past. In the main, this saving has been attracted into the National Savings Movement which, as hon. Members know, offers absolute security, albeit with a small but not unreasonable rate of interest. Is it any wonder, then, that the new saver may be tempted by the inducement of a very high rate of interest to put his money in such a company? I believe it is the duty of the House to safeguard these new and inexperienced savers from the folly which they might unwittingly commit. I should like, therefore, to welcome this Bill, and, in so doing, to congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Torring-ton, not only on his success in the Ballot, but on his courage in bringing forward this Bill. Hon. Members will be aware of his considerable achievements over the fences at Cheltenham and Aintree, and I trust that he may also meet with success in his first hurdle of his first Parliamentary ride. He has described the Bill in great detail, and I would not wish to go over the ground again, except to say that two points which are of some importance arise. The first one is on Clause I, which stipulates fairly exacting requirements and details that a company has to furnish to the registrar. The essential thing here, I believe, is that companies should be required to make full disclosure of all their business and contracts, and this is in fact achieved by this Clause. The second point concerns private companies and exempt private companies. Clauses 3 and 4 ensure that no private company will issue an invitation to the public unless it fulfils the requirements of Clause 1, and no private company may be exempt if it at any time issues any such invitation to the public. This I regard as being very important, and I hope it will deter this very limited group of people, to whom I referred earlier, from the actions which have been so unfortunate in the past. I spent a considerable number of years in America and during that time, when I was working in Wall Street, I saw in operation the Securities and Exchange Acts, both of the Federal Government and of the various State Governments of America. The American law has gone a great way towards providing safeguards for the protection of small investors. Possibly, that is one of the reasons why the number of investors in America, proportionate to the population, is so much higher than it is in this country. I can assure the House that under American law, whether intra- or inter-State, none of the solicitation we have been discussing here could possibly have been allowed. I hope that we may possibly take over some of the parts of the Securities and Exchange Acts, for I believe that they have a place in the law of this country in so far as they provide safeguards for investors. To that extent, I greatly welcome the Committee set up by my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade under the chairmanship of Lord Jenkins. I earnestly hope that when that Committee—and what a very hard task it has in front of it—is looking into this matter, it may pay especial attention exactly to the problem of the protection of small investors and savers, and towards giving some encouragement to those investors who are a most important part of our capitalist system. I know it is possible that as a result of the recommendations of this Committee the Government may bring forward some legislation to deal with the matter. To that extent, in so far as it does afford the sort of protection which my hon. Friend's Bill is seeking to do, I would urge the House that it should go forward with this present Measure, realising that it is a step in the right direction. The day after I was returned—on 9th October—I received a cable from a friend of mine in America, to whom I am greatly indebted for what little I know about security finance over there. It said: ""Congratulations. Heaven help the British Empire."" I hope that Heaven and this House will help the British Empire and the British people by giving this Bill a Second Reading.
