gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to crave the indulgence of the House on  this occasion, it being the first time that I have been privileged to address the House. I am very happy to be the Member for Wigan, a town whose history can be traced back to the twelfth century. In fact, the Charter of 1199 first mentions the name of Wigan, spelled then as it is spelled now—a town, I believe, of Saxon origin. In the Charter of 1662 authority was given to the borough to use the motto ""Ancient and Loyal"", and from that day onwards Wigan has been known as the ancient and loyal Borough of Wigan. The people of Wigan, known affectionately as Wiganers, are a happy, kindly people, tolerant but yet outspoken. I have always found it very difficult to understand why third-rate comedians find so much material from Wigan when they are on the stage. As Englishmen, we have a sense of humour, and I believe that our sense of humour and our ability to laugh at ourselves is one of our greatest national assets. I hope that in some small degree I share that asset, but the type of humour which these third-rate comedians turn out bears no relation whatever to the type of people who live in Wigan or to the structure of the town. Poverty, so vividly described in George Orwell's book, The Road to Wigan Pier, has, I am glad to say, disappeared, and I am sure that hon. Members on both sides of the House do not want it to reappear. Wigan has been associated with coal for very many generations, but it may interest hon. Members to know that very little coal is being produced in the Borough of Wigan now. Unfortunately, Wigan, so far as coal production is concerned, is a dying area. Many of the inhabitants are in coal mining, but are outside the area, such as in the neighbourhoods of Manchester and St. Helens. Wigan has a very fine mining college and attracts students from all over the world. I should now like to make two observations on Volume 1 of the National Coal Board's Report. Paragraph 233, on page 47, reads: There are good reasons why absence rates may be higher in mining than in some other industries. Until nine weeks ago, I was an underground mineworker. During the latter half of 1957 we had, as we have had   periodically since nationalisation, attacks on the miners about the problem of absenteeism. I do not want to be controversial. I wish to uphold the traditions of a maiden speech, but the miners resent being singled out for special attention and publicity in this matter. We on this side of the House cannot, of course, condone habitual absenteeism; we never have done. I should like to describe an experiment which we carried out in a Lancashire coalfield and which may have been tried in other coalfields. We set up committees, called attendance committees, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Coal Board and the National Union of Mineworkers. The purpose of these committees was not to discipline men, except in the last resort, but to try to find oat exactly why a man was habitually and consistently off work. We considered whether this was due to domestic or personal reasons, because they play a part in a man's employment. What happened? Unfortunately, these committees were killed largely by the undesirable publicity which they received from the Press. When captions such as, ""Lazy miners to be sacked"", or, in one case, ""Four lazy miners to be sacked"" appeared in the Press, immediately the traditional loyalty of the miner was aroused for his fellow worker, and it became impossible to work these committees. When they could work in an unobtrusive way and without publicity, they did a great deal of good work. The mineworkers' leaders in Lancashire should be congratulated on their courage in facing up to this problem. This was to a certain extent an effort in the art of self-criticism, which, I think hon. Members will agree, is the highest form of criticism. I only hope that when people criticise the mineworkers, as they do, they will sometimes apply the same tests to themselves. I should like to say a word or two about absenteeism in general. It is recognised that mining is a difficult and unhealthy job. Therefore, in a job of that nature there is bound to be a certain amount of absenteeism. A man must present himself at the pithead in time to go down at the last winding. If he is a minute late he loses a day's work. That does not appertain in other industries. Even though a person is late, perhaps by a quarter of an hour or half an hour, he  can do some work during the day. That factor again contributes to a higher rate of absenteeism. I now turn to the question of the ever widening gap between wages and sickness pay, which is relatively wider today than it was before the war. If I may speak from personal experience, while I was down the pit there were some men, not many, many of them middle-aged low-paid workers, who would take a couple of days off rather than go to the doctor because he might sign them off for a week or a month, which they could not afford. That is another reason which has contributed to voluntary absenteeism. I have with me a cutting from the Observer which I should like to quote. The Observer is a newspaper for which I have a great affection. I believe that it is a paper that contains exceedingly good, clear and original articles. But I can hardly agree with this comment in it: One of the few attractions of being a miner is that it is possible to earn good money without too regular attendance, so that the job likely more and more to attract men of a particular type and personality—just as teaching attracts people who like long holidays, and the Civil Service people who like security. It is not my intention to bring discord into the debate in discussing the relative merits of why people go into teaching or the Civil Service. But if it is not unparliamentary language, it is sheer tripe to say that men go into mining because they want to indulge in absenteeism. If that were true, when the Coal Board advertises for new recruits it should also advertise not only a good pension scheme and holidays with pay, but plenty of absenteeism thrown in. I should now like to turn to page 49 of the Report, which deals with welfare. The Board has done a great deal in this direction. I am particularly interested in this matter because I was the vice-chairman of the colliery canteen and baths committee. The Board's job in the matter of human relations has two aspects. First, it has to raise the economic position of the miner, which it has done, and, secondly, to raise his social status. It has tried to do this by providing baths and canteens. We know that we are faced with competition from the new form of fuel from atomic energy. We shall not approach   this matter with the mentality of a Luddite. We shall approach it in the proper way. Coal has been the basis of this country's prosperity for many generations. I believe that the ingenuity of our scientists and technicians can find fresh use for this wonderful commodity and mineral. The Coal Board may have organisational and structural defects, but it has given the mineworker a sense of security and justice that he has not known before.
