gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing lf to you for the first time, Mr. Speaker, I humbly crave your indulgence and I earnestly beseech right hon. and hon. Members for their forbearance in my temerity in so doing. Representing, as I do, the great constituency of Hemsworth, with the largest majority in Great Britain, perhaps I may be forgiven for bringing forward three reasons why Hemsworth is placed in this very proud position. Primarily it is because this vast majority, as at previous General Elections, is consumed with a burning, passionate desire that social justice shall be dispensed to all people. Therefore, it is my duty to draw the attention of the House to two grave omissions from the Gracious Speech. I refer to the needs of our old-age pensioners and to the situation now present in the mining industry. The electorate of Hemsworth has heard the cry of the old-age pensioners and has affirmed that  it is immoral to deny them and unjust to deprive our senior citizens of their fair share of the national income. Hemsworth has recorded its support for the contention of right hon. and hon. Members on this side of the House that old-age pensioners' right of citizenship of our noble country should be freedom from poverty and want. It is regrettable that the Gracious Speech makes no mention of righting this injustice. Hemsworth is predominantly a coalmining area. Its people are, once again, being faced with the spectre of the hungry 'thirties. I hasten to assure the House that we are not living in the past, but memory forbids us all to forget, and it is by the pains of the past, by the remembrance of our sacrifices, struggles and inspirations in the past that we relate our present-day experiences. The result is our fearful apprehension for our future. Our nation owes an immeasurable debt of gratitude to its mining community, not only for their response to the call of the nation's need in the immediate post-war years to rebuild the national economy, after six weary war years when the miners sacrificed their weekend leisure by operating the extended working hours agreement, but also for their noblest response by producing the coal for victory over Fascism. Even in a maiden speech I make no apologies for reminding the House of that, which was the miners' greatest achievement. I have a very vivid recollection of being summoned to a conference at Westminster in 1944. Every pithead in Great Britain was represented at that conference, which was addressed by the late Field Marshal Smuts and the then Prime Minister, the right hon. Member for Woodford (Sir W. Churchill). They disclosed to us the dire peril in which our beloved country was placed in the war against Fascism. They implored us to act as their ambassadors, to go out into the mining villages, relate to our people the grave danger in which we were all placed and to tell them of the vital necessity to produce more coal. I shall never forget the concluding words of the right hon. Member for Woodford, which will bear repetition in the House today. He said, ""In the postwar years when the history of our present   struggle has to be written, posterity will ask of us, 'What did you do to bring us our great inheritance?' Someone will say, 'I was a fighter pilot'. Another will say, 'I served in the Army'. Another will say, 'I served in the Royal Navy'. Others will say, 'I did my share in the field and in the factory'. But you, the miner, with joy in your heart and justifiable pride in your soul, can say, 'Yes, you all played a part, but all your efforts depended upon mine, because I cut the coal.'"". How well the miners responded to that appeal is a matter of history. Is it to be the heritage of the miners that the mining valleys are to become the derelict, murdered Jarrows of 1960? Her Majesty's Government must discharge the nation's debt to the mining community by adopting a comprehensive and coordinated fuel policy for the production and consumption of the nation's overall fuel requirements. They must adopt a planned policy which will have full regard to the strategic issues involved, will not leave the economy at the mercy of the whims of some outlandish sheikh, and will have the fullest regard to the balance of payments issue involved in the use of imported oil and gas fuel. The Government must ensure that coal and the miners get a fair crack, and not the lash, of the whip. Miners will spurn charity, the dole and National Assistance. We shall demand the right to earn our livelihood in the full dignity of our labour. If Her Majesty's Government fail to do this, miners will regard them as the political henchmen of the handful of oil monopolists who are the would-be assassins of the mining community. Members of the House, by insisting upon the measures I have outlined, will acquit themselves as honourable gentlemen.
