gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker for enabling me to make my maiden speech on the subject of National Health Service reorganisation, which causes concern to rural areas because of the risk that centralisation of administration may lead to centralisation of the service. I am privileged to represent Berwick-upon-Tweed, a constituency of great and  diverse beauty. In an area of 800 square miles we have the grandeur of the Cheviot Hills, a magnificent coastline studded with castles, fishing villages, Holy Island, the Farne Islands, rivers known for their salmon-fishing, particularly the Tweed and the Coquet, and towns of great importance such as Berwick and Alnwick. Berwick is increasingly recognised as a walled town of international significance, although the cost of maintaining its great stock of listed buildings is beyond its means. Ours is an area in which agriculture has traditionally been our major industry, but with vastly improved productivity it now employs a much smaller labour force than hitherto. Quarrying, forestry and fishing are important employers in the area, and one of the most important employers of all is the coal industry. Two pits, at Shilbottle and Whittle, provide house coal of high quality, but at the cost of extremely arduous working conditions in very low seams. In addition, we look to new developments in small industrial and administrative employment to stem the population decline. The problems which face my constituency are not unknown to other hon. Members who represent rural areas, but they are made more difficult to solve because the Berwick-upon-Tweed constituency is further from London than any other in England, and this distance is not eased by any of the benefits of closer attention which the Scottish and Welsh Departments, even under the present limited decentralisation of power to those countries, are able to give to their areas. I think it can be shown that from the point of view of health reorganisation my area would have been more favourably treated had it not been in England. I should perhaps correct a widespread misapprehension which may be less common in the House than in some Government offices. Although Berwick has changed hands between England and Scotland many times in earlier centuries and is reputed, incidentally, to have been left out of the peace treaty with Russia at the end of the Crimean War, leaving us still in a state of war with that country, it is not in Scotland. It contains no part of the Scottish county of Berwickshire, which is represented by another hon. Member. It consists entirely of the   northern part of Northumberland. We prefer to take the best that Scotland can offer, be it Presbyterianism, whisky, Old Year's Night, or a position at the top of the Scottish Football League Division 2, while remaining resolutely English. It should be unnecessary for me to describe my constituency and its problems at length to the Secretary of State. I am sorry that he is absent. He and other right hon. Members on the Government Front Bench were kind enough to visit my constituency, by coincidence, last month. I assure the right hon. Gentleman that my presence here in no way suggests that my constituents failed to appreciate the trouble he took, and I look forward to welcoming him back on any future occasion when he is able to fit a visit into his timetable. I fear, however, that the Secretary of State's visit came too late and was too brief to affect his health service reorganisation. It is lamentably characteristic of schemes of reorganisation of all kinds—this one is no exception—that they are conceived with one part of the country in mind and then applied to another part to which they are totally unsuited. I take the example of the district level of organisation in which the district general hospital is an essential component. There is no such thing as a district general hospital in the whole area of the new Northumberland Health Authority, and there is never likely to be, because Northumberland and Newcastle are interdependent for hospital services, and no one of the four general hospital centres within Northumberland could be developed to the extent that it could satisfactorily serve the whole area. As there is no district general hospital in the area, the logic of the district system breaks down and it becomes necessary to impose an arbitrary minimum population limit of 100,000 to prevent areas like my constituency from being treated as districts. I suggest that the right hon. Gentleman has a word with his right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State for Wales and considers the arrangements that that gentleman has approved for the county of Dyfed. That is an area, with a population identical to that of my own county,  which has been treated much more favourably and divided into four health districts. That is why I said at the beginning that we would have been treated more favourably if we had been in Wales or Scotland. It is to be hoped that if reorganisation proceeds on present lines both the Department and the area health authority will look favourably at the possibility of dividing Northumberland into at least three geographical sectors for the management of the health service with separate community health councils to match these sectors. If that is not allowed there will be centralisation of management with a loss of efficiency, loss of an understanding of local problems, a loss of much-needed administrative and clerical employment to towns like Alnwick and Berwick and, perhaps more important, a loss of commitment to the decentralisation of medical services in the area. At the moment far too many patients and relatives have to make long and difficult journeys to hospitals outside the constituency. It is common for relatives to have to spend four or five hours in travelling to Ashington or Newcastle for a brief visit to a patient. Cases have been reported of out-patients spending as long as seven hours in an ambulance travelling to and from a 15-minute consultation. There is great scope for the expansion of facilities at Alnwick and Berwick but little prospect of the expansion taking place if all the decisions rest with a larger area with a prior interest in building up Ashington. The Secretary of State has often stressed the desirability of decentralising psychiatric beds out of large hospitals, but there is little sign of such a policy in Northumberland, where 2,000 beds are concentrated at Morpeth. Psychiatric day hospitals and small acute psychiatric units attached to the present infirmaries could all be developed at Alnwick and Berwick, where there are far better opportunities to recruit nursing and ancillary staff than in the more prosperous and congested areas. That, I think, was noted by the right hon. Gentleman on his recent visit. Facilities for the young chronic sick and elderly patients with severe dementia could be provided in these centres. None of these things is likely to happen under   a system in which decision making does not sufficiently involve local people with a real commitment to decentralisation. This brings me to the two wider points which will lead me and my hon. Friends to support the motion. One is that of all the options which were open to the Government for reorganising the National Health Service they have chosen the least democratic and the least representative scheme possible. What were the possibilities for a united health service? There could have been local government control—an idea which was obliquely recommended by the Redcliffe-Maud report but was rejected by the Labour Government and by the present Conservative Government. There is a system based on ministerial appointments with no element of direct election, which is the option the Government have chosen. There is also the possibility of health authorities with directly elected members as well as representatives of the professions and occupations. We would have preferred such a system. The system eventually favoured by the Labour Government involved representation from the local authorities and supplied an element of democratic participation. This last possibility falls short of our ideals, but it was preferable to what we are now being offered. Indeed, in regard to lay involvement in running the health service the present system is preferable to the new one. I am sure that there are many hon. Members on both sides of the House who regret the departure from health management of the thousands of men and women who gave valuable public service on hospital management committees and local authority health committees. In the new system the only place for lay participation on this scale is through the powerless community health councils, which, although no doubt they will find something useful to do, will be at the receiving end rather than at the making end of major decisions. At the level of the district team there is no lay participation at all, and at the area and regional level it is on an appointed basis. The public for whom the service is provided surely deserve a system to which they may have greater representative access than this. The right hon. Gentleman claimed that those of us who take this view are confused between management  and the community's reaction to management. That confusion, if confusion it is, is at the heart of our whole system of government—local and central—and is embodied even in his own position as Secretary of State, and rightly so. In this country we have long believed that elected representatives of the public should be involved in supervising the management of the services which are provided for the public. But there is another reason for concern which, in view of all the Government's references to the need for management ability in the new National Health Service, is surprising and even ironic. There is enormous and widespread feeling among those who operate the health service that the process of reorganisation has gone badly wrong. I am involved as a councillor in local government reorganisation, and I know just how difficult the process is and the problems which are faced. But the trials and fears of local government reorganisation have been as nothing when compared to the present situation in the National Health Service. The list of grievances is very long. It ranges from the mysterious principles on which shortlisting for appointments is carried out to the lack of consultation cited by the unions representing hospital ancillary staffs, including usually moderate bodies like NALGO. Thousands of people are wondering whether they will have a job comparable to and in the same area as their present job. On top of a sense of insecurity, there is the sense of injustice that the additional payments for extra reorganisational work which have been granted to local government offices have been denied to the National Health Service staffs. It would be hard to imagine a worse climate in which to establish a new National Health Service, and it is especially hard to imagine that by 1st April 1974 reorganisation can be completed in anything but a nominal sense.
