gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to intervene in this very important debate I would claim the privilege of a maiden speaker and ask the indulgence of the House which it is always so generous in giving to new Members when they address the House for the first time. I shall endeavour not to be   controversial. I had hoped that my medical knowledge would be of value when I came to the House. So far, it has been a help in treating various members of the staff, but I must confess to you, Mr. Speaker, that I have completely failed to prescribe for myself some tranquiliser sufficiently effective to sustain me in front of the House tonight. I have the honour to represent Clapham, and I can assure the House that, in Clapham, people are very cognisant of the importance of foreign affairs, because they say that whatever the Government do and whatever they themselves do, in an endeavour to improve their lives and the standard of living both for themselves and their children, it is all completely and utterly useless unless we can obtain a permanent peace settlement in the world and some degree of security, a framework of security within which we can all work. I welcome this debate combining the subjects of defence and foreign affairs, because, to my mind, they are indivisable. It is no use attempting in any way to negotiate with the Russians unless we have behind us a strong force. It is only through strength that we shall have any bargaining power with the Russians. I am influenced, I must confess, in my approach to foreign affairs by the events of 1956. At that time, I was fortunate—or unfortunate—enough to be in Hungary during the revolution. I witnessed the Russian armies invading that country, in contravention to a treaty and an agreement which had been made only three days previously by which the Russians guaranteed that they would leave Hungary and never invade it again. As I journeyed from Hungary towards Roumania, I saw the Russian armies advancing from Russia. It occurred to me then, and it has occurred to me ever since, that there was nothing in Europe at that time in the way of conventional forces which could possibly have stopped those armies proceeding westwards through Austria and right through Europe. There was only one factor which could stop them, and that was the fear of the atomic deterrent. I am quite convinced that that was the factor which deterred them. Times have changed and I am genuinely convinced that Russian policy is altering as well. I think that the Russians believe that they can achieve their objects in other ways, first, by subversive activity, evidence of which I saw on my recent visit to the Middle East, and, secondly, by an endeavour to beat the Western world in the commercial sphere. It is for this last reason that I believe that Russia is so anxious to move many of her soldiers from the forces into industry. I am quite convinced that the initiative of the Prime Minister led to agreement to hold Summit talks. The preparations made and the personal contacts which he has established will, I am sure, bring us eventually to an agreement at the Summit. I regard it as the duty of the Government to provide an adequate system of defence for this country until such time as that agreement is achieved. Recent events in France, the political crisis, combined with the very large forces which France is employing in Algeria, I should have thought, make up one of the reasons and one of the necessities, though only one, for the rearming of Western Germany. The hon. Member for Dunfermline Burghs (Dr. A. Thompson) very rightly stressed the history of the three invasions by the Germans, but I am certain that many of these fears could be allayed, first, if people realised that we are working for some form of world disarmament and that Western Germany will be included in that agreement. Secondly, it would be as well if people appreciated that if Western Germany were to set out on her own on some aggressive war the object of which might be the reunification of Germany or something of that nature, we should make it perfectly clear to her and the rest of the world that in an enterprise of that kind she would not have the backing of N.A.T.O. and would stand alone. My right hon. and learned Friend the Foreign Secretary today stressed the importance of tests. I believe that in the three stages of disarmament on which he is working the only really important thing is a system of proper international inspection, because it is perfectly possible and feasible for any nation in a country as vast as Russia to carry out atomic tests and have an army of unknown size if some form of international supervision   is not undertaken. Until it is undertaken I do not believe that any form of disarmament is really practical or honest. If the Russians believe in disarmament, let them submit to a proper system of checks of nuclear tests and of inspection so that we and the rest of the world may be sure of the size of their forces. This is particularly important in view of what Mr. Khrushchev said in January to the Supreme Soviet. He emphasised the importance of demobilisation and of moving men from the forces into the factories, but he went on to say that at a moment's notice these men could be rapidly moved into the field. That is an extremely important statement by the Russian Government. I believe that there is only one possible and practicable way of dealing with it and that is by making sure that if there is disarmament it is a proper disarmament and is not done under some other guise such as the moving of people into industry. One of the greatest dangers we have to fight today is not only the problem of arms, but also the problem of the subversive war which the Russians are waging in the world. I saw evidence recently in North Africa of the strategy which they adopt, and I was very pleased that my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary mentioned this as one of the great dangers which confront us. I am quite certain that it is possible to have an agreement, and I am sure that when any agreement is made my right hon. and learned Friend and our Western allies will not forget the incidents of Hungary and Tibet in any negotiations which they carry out. The hon. Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey) said that this could be a remarkable year. I believe that the lifetime of this Parliament in which we are privileged to sit could be remarkable if we could undertake a system by which the world disarmed by stages and if, at the end of this Parliament or in the next few years, we could remove for all time the threat of war—and by that I mean the threat of all types of war and not only nuclear war. I welcomed the signature the other day of the cultural treaty with Russia which comes into effect on 1st April. I am sure that the exchanges of individuals between this and other Western countries and Russia can be a  great advance towards a feeling of understanding between countries. I should like to pay tribute to the Foreign Secretary. Two years ago, when I was in Ankara, I talked privately to Mr. Zorlu, and I said to him casually. ""Is there anyone who understands these problems?"" He replied, ""There is one man, and that man is Mr. Selwyn Lloyd"". I am quite certain that my right hon. and learned Friend's patient negotiations and hard work will be rewarded eventually in a Summit Conference and that we shall live, in the lifetime of this Parliament, to fight Russia not with arms, but with the only weapons with which I believe it is humanly possible to fight her, and that is with commercial competition. I thank the House for listening to me with such indulgence today.
