gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The fact that I rise to make my maiden speech from the Liberal benches does not mean that I have seized the leadership of the Liberal Party. It springs from my ignorance of the seating arrangements. I must apologise to the hon. Member for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Grimond) and assure him that I am making no bid at all for his position. Some days ago in a very witty and able speech the right hon. Member for Easington (Mr. Shinwell) suggested that Scottish Members are too parochial. As the new Member of Parliament for Dunfermline Burghs, succeeding the sincere, diligent and able Mr. James Clunie, I do not want to begin by apologising for being interested in local issues. In fact, shortly after the debate started I was handed a telegram from my constituency protesting  at its exclusion from the provisions of the Local Employment Bill. My constituents are concerned with local issues, but they are still intelligent enough to know that their future is affected by many things that happen not only south of the Border but south of the English Channel. I believe that very few international decisions affect us so vitally and intimately wherever we may live as the one about which I want to talk—the provision of nuclear weapons to Western Germany. I want to make it clear that in order to oppose this one has not to be a Communist or a pacifist. There are thousands, indeed millions, of people in Europe who are not Communists or pacifists and who believe in close co-operation with America and believe in N.A.T.O., but who still have serious misgivings about the provision of nuclear weapons to Germany and believe that the provision of them is not merely a step forward in quantity from conventional armaments, which they support, but a dangerous step of quite a different kind. Put simply, arrangements are to go ahead with equipping Western Germany with nuclear missiles which can strike 900 miles inside Soviet territory. I might mention that they could also strike at Birmingham, Leeds or Dublin, but it is very improbable, almost impossible, that they should ever do so. However, the last fifty years of foreign policy have shown us that nothing is impossible in foreign affairs. President Eisenhower is already asking Congress to give the Western Germans outright control. If this is done, it will give Western Germany, perhaps not under the present régime, under Dr. Adenauer, but at some future date—the Hindenburgs pass away and give place to new régimes—complete possession of this deadly weapon and the possibility of using it independently of collective security agreements. What lends a special and particular danger to the possession by Western Germany of these devastating weapons of destruction? Here I want to make my position clear. I support N.A.T.O. and the American alliance, but I still believe that there are special conditions, and I believe that the vast majority of my countrymen, regardless of their politics, and many people on the Continent of   Europe share this view. I would say that the particular danger lies in something which is going on in Germany at the moment, and that is the resurgence of nationalism. There is nothing inherently wrong in nationalism itself. Pride in one's own country and national heritage is good and right. It is only an uncritical patriotism that is wrong. However, the danger of German nationalism is that it may in a very short space of time seek its impulse and objective in reunification, in a drive to the East. Dr. Adenauer is not Hitler and shares none of the vices of that unlamented leader, but he has one thing in common with Hitler in that he seems to believe that the Germans have some special destiny to protect Europe. Why else should he in his recent audience of the Pope say, ""We Germans are the guardians of the West""? Those words would ring very hollow in the ears of, if they were alive to hear them, millions of British, American and European dead. I speak not only of those who died in the last war but of those who died in the four terrible years from 1914 to 1918. The more one reads the books of that period and the biographies of the military leaders, the more one realises the contrast between the dedication and heroism of many of the young soldiers and junior officers in that war and the intrigue, malice and stupidity of he war leaders. I agree with a previous speaker that the Germans are not peculiarly vulnerable to original sin, but that their form of nationalism has a particular political and geographical basis. German nationalism, as distinct from most forms of nationalism which merely aspire to self-determination, has found its impulse and popular appeal in the advocacy of direct military expansion, and the effect has always been to create unease and fear among Germany's neighbours. Speaking of this urge to expansion in December, 1942, Sir Anthony Eden stated: During the last 70 years—these are unpleasant historical facts that we have to face—successive German Governments have consciously and consistently pursued a policy of domination. This policy and the philosophy that is behind it is the first threat to enduring peace, and it will be the first and imperative duty of the United Nations on the morrow  of their victory to elaborate such a settlement as will make it impossible for Germany again to dominate her neighbours by force of arms. That lies at the root of the business, and it would be sheer folly … here is the crux of the speech— … to allow some non-Nazi Government to be set up, and then, so to speak, to trust to luck. The rooting out of the old false gods will be a long and strenuous business, but it must be accomplished.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT. 2nd December, 1942; Vol. 385, c. 1258–9.] Have we yet rooted out the false gods? Certainly much has been done. Let us not forget that we did it, the Allies, by our sacrifice and efforts. This gives us the right to speak about—although admittedly not to interfere in—the internal affairs of Western Germany and to point out that twice in our generation we and our allies have had to sacrifice our blood and treasure in war and thereby assume the obligations of keeping a just and permanent peace in Europe. The task of defeating German militarism fell to us, but I am fully prepared to agree with the Foreign Secretary that much has been done by the Germans themselves. Much has been done in the way of genuine reform and de-Nazification. It would be absurd to argue that Dr. Adenauer is a Nazi. And no one remembering the dignified and humane speeches by President Heuss during his visit to this country can doubt that there are many Germans who want to build afresh and live in amity with their neighbours. But we cannot be too complacent—this is not neurosis; it is legitimate apprehension and legitimate watchfulness—about the rooting out of the false gods. They cannot be rooted out by sentencing a few misguided young fanatics to imprisonment for daubing synagogues. The roots are deeper. The point was well put recently by the Catholic Bishop of Limburg, Mgr. Kampe, who said: It would be wrong to see ghosts everywhere. But there are enough embarrassing topics which nobody dares to broach because of a still prevailing panic fright at the secret power and brutality of the Nazi gang. What is lacking is an organisation of all anti-Nazi forces as a solid wall against the secret and underground attacks against our as yet insufficiently established democratic society. Or as a German teacher said in an interview recently when he was asked why so little is taught in the schools about the worst Nazi excesses: We do nothing in the Fourth Reich which will hurt us in the Fifth.   He spoke in jest; but the words are no jest to millions of Europeans. They are probably not afraid of Dr. Adenauer, but they are afraid of the Fifth Reich; and in view of all that has happened in our lifetime, cannot we understand their fears and their very serious criticisms of the presence of former Nazis in high places in Germany? These are not ghosts or figments of the imagination but real people with real dossiers and real criminal records. I saw the other day that the Americans are, at Dr. Adenauer's request, no longer to allow access to their archives on S.S. and Gestapo records. The reason given is that the Government are embarrassed. Why should they be? Why should not they be glad that all the free political parties of Germany have the right to inspect the records and satisfy themselves that no prominent Nazis are in power? This ban seems to be the act of a man who is, if not guilty, at least afraid. Perhaps I might say that the danger is that these records will one day be destroyed. It will be just like ""1984""; it will ""never have happened"". Fortunately, there is in Britain, free from the pressures of high diplomacy, a source of information available to us. If hon. Members ever care to take a short 'bus journey from this House to No. 4, Devonshire Street, they will find the building which houses an organisation known as the Wiener Library. It was founded by Dr. Wiener in Amsterdam in 1933 and was moved to this country before the war. Its purpose was to keep a complete and unique documentation of the Nazi era. In this library will be found files on hundreds of S.S. and Nazi criminals, with photostat records, affadavits, pamphlets and books. It is completely unpolitical and is activated by no feelings of revenge. The library's workers are scholars. Its purpose is merely to preserve for posterity the history of a European political movement in the third and fourth decades of this century. Here hon. Members will find not the outpourings of propaganda but cold legal facts. Yet, if they move along these shelves and look at some of the records, they will find documentation of such horror that, unless the proof were there, future historians would never believe that it had happened. I said that the Wiener Library was connected with the mere preservation of records and was completely impartial. For instance, on the subject to Dr. Globke, a controversial figure in the Western German Cabinet, it believes that his war guilt has been exaggerated. His dossier shows him to have been largely a civil servant, a technician, who felt it his duty to serve any master. Against Professor Oberlander, the other controversial member of Dr. Adenauer's Cabinet, the evidence is far more damning, and there seems little doubt that he was directly implicated in some of the most terrible atrocities in the Eastern territories. Fresh evidence of his complicity has come from Israel, from a refugee, Mr. Abraham Goldberg, who was among a batch of Jews who were made to run the gauntlet between rows of soldiers and bayonetted as they ran. This refugee escaped by hiding under the corpse of a fellow Jew and, very unfortunately for Professor Oberlander, has lived to tell his tale. I say ""unfortunately"" because only a few weeks ago Professor Oberlander was saying the accusations against him were vile Bolshevik lies. Dr. Adenauer, if he sincerely wishes to preserve his reputation for prompt and firm action against ex-Nazis, is under an obligation to dismiss Professor Oberlander as soon as possible. The cases of prominent Nazis in high office are too numerous to be detailed, but perhaps I might be permitted to mention one or two cases. The position of judges is even more serious. One understands the extremely difficult position of judges under Nazism. They had to keep their wives and families, yet, somehow, reconcile the principles of Western law and the deeply felt moral values so painfully established over the centuries with serving under a Government consisting of criminal gangsters. Perhaps we can bring ourselves to forgive those who narrowly and technically exercised the law, showing mercy wherever possible, but it is very difficult to excuse those who were the enthusiastic hangmen of the Nazis, and whose judgments were delivered with political fervour. One investigation concerns a judge, now in high office in Germany, who imposed the death penalty on anyone sheltering children who had escaped from   the ghettoes or camps. The position of children in camps was a terrible one. Mothers who were waiting to be taken to the gas chambers would make the most strenuous efforts to save their children—concealing them under bundles of clothes, suspending them under coats hanging on hooks. Usually the S.S. men unearthed the children and took them to the gas chambers, but sometimes they were smuggled out. The judge in question showed no mercy to those who took these rescued children into their homes. On 25th June, 1943, he sentenced a Pole to death for giving shelter to two little escaped Jewish children, and on 4th April, 1944, he sentenced another Pole to death for Sheltering a 12-year-old boy who had escaped liquidation. Yet this enthusiastic hangman of the Nazi régime—and I do not use such words lightly—now dispenses justice in German courts. The records of another judge show that in 1941 he sentenced an elderly Polish lady to death for being in possession of two sporting guns, formerly belonging to her father, which were family heirlooms. The offence was clearly a technical one—the old lady did not even know how to use them—but this judge sent her to the gallows as an example. Even the Nazi Ministry of Justice was shocked by the savagery of the sentence—and it was not easy to shock the Nazi Ministry of Justice in 1941. The records of the Ministry contain the simple comment: Since the condemned person has been executed. I believe further investigation to be useless. Yet the man who passed this sentence is now a prominent judge in Western Germany. I could go on at great length—I have many such examples before me. I do not quote these cases in any spirit of revenge. I am not even asking that all of these men be brought to trial. We cannot relive for ever the battles and the bitterness of the past, and I believe as does the Foreign Secretary, that these cases are not representative of the majority of men in high office in Germany. Nevertheless, all these years later, their existence still disturbs us, not because we are vindictive or vengeful, or afraid of ghosts, but because we wish to see Germany, for its own sake as well as that of the world, hold up its head  among free nations, cleaned and purged of the bloodshed and tyranny of the past, and a sincere and reliable ally in the cause of freedom. It is a tragedy that Nazi crimes have become a counter in the quarrel between East and West. They are forgotten or remembered according to the expediencies of the cold war. They have been cited here today merely to indicate that, deplore it as we will, there are tensions within the German State—the tensions described by the Catholic bishop whom I have mentioned. Furthermore these tensions make for fear and suspicion, and sometimes hatred, in Central Europe. I believe that the proposal to provide Western Germany with nuclear weapons at this time will add to these tensions and will be against the interests of everyone concerned, not least the German people themselves. If my speech has any consistent theme it is that we should think of our foreign policy in terms of something more than the day-to-day and month-to-month strategical and tactical arrangements, though I do not deny that we must defend ourselves. We fought, through many sacrifices, to establish certain values and I think that it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government, and of this House, from time to time to draw attention to these values. Let me take your memories back to December, 1942, when the long night had descended over Europe, and Nazi domination had stretched almost to its further limits, when the trains were bearing their cargoes of human victims from the eastern territories and elsewhere to the concentration camps. News of the worst Nazi atrocities had just been received by this House. It was then that the House, in a memorable debate, declared its faith in, and its dedication to, victory and to eventual peace in Europe. Hon. Members stood in silence: but their silence was more eloquent than words. It told the world that the days of the Nazis were numbered. I believe that, in the new task and purposes of constructive peace which face us today, this House and the Government should remember that our foreign policy is not solely concerned with tactical and strategic objectives. We have the right to speak on larger issues, a right earned by blood and   sacrifice. And our own great traditions of freedom enable us to speak out clearly whenever we see, or suspect that we see, the resurgence of Nazism.
