gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In asking for the indulgence of the House this afternoon, I do so with particular diffidence. First, this is a debate in which we can expect, and have been warned to expect, emphatic feelings to be expressed in equally emphatic words. Secondly, there must be many learned in economic matters, Mr. Speaker, who seek to catch your eye. None the less, I have two reasons which encourage me to be on my feet this afternoon, and the first is the generosity and toleration which I have already observed to be extended by the House to those who speak here for the first time. The second reason is rooted in my constituency. My constituents earn their living by very diverse means. About 40 per cent. of them are engaged in widespread textile and engineering activities. Preston, of which the division of Preston, South is part, is a thriving port and an important railway centre, and it has substantial food production within its boundaries. It is a very famous, indeed an ancient, administrative centre. It is, perhaps, therefore not inappropriate that it also boasts a paper-mill. For those two reasons, but particularly for the wide range of activities in which my constituents earn their living, I am encouraged to believe that it is by broad, general, sound economic principles and policies that the interests of my constituents will be best advanced rather than by concentration upon one particular industrial interest or upon one selected administrative method. We have heard already this afternoon—and perhaps this is an encouraging feature—that we face, and both Socialist and Conservative Governments have faced, a problem different in kind from that which we faced before the war. Then we had an economy lagging in a stagnant world. Now it is an economy overstrained in a changing world. I believe that Governments of both parties, together with all the people, can take some credit in the circumstances—indeed, considerable credit—that we enjoy today more prosperity more widely spread than ever before in our history. I believe that we can take this credit in particular for a reason which has not so far been mentioned in the debate. When we entered the new post-war scene we did so with an economy more highly developed already, perhaps more fully expanded, than any other industrial nation in the world, and just because of that high degree of development it has been correspondingly more difficult for us to change rapidly the kind of work we do and, perhaps, the pace at which we do it. That, I suggest, is still a most important factor for us to remember. Indeed, it encourages me to repeat the  thought that we do ourselves less than justice if we pretend that we have no prosperity at all. Our problem has been to change an already highly developed economy in a world which is changing very rapidly in the kind of demands it makes upon those who are able to export industrial goods and materials. It is a difficult task. I believe it not appropriate to suggest that we compare unfavourably with a nation such as Western Germany. We were not so overwhelmed in war that we were forced to start afresh. We have not had, as Western Germany has had, a steady influx of new, young, skilled Germans with whom to support an expanding economy. By the same token, we are not like the United States or the U.S.S.R. in that we are not in a position to exploit large-scale mining and still undeveloped natural resources. I am certain that we have had a harder task, and this I apply to both Socialist and Conservative Governments, to change and keep our economy in phase than have most of our competitors and most of our allies in the world. We have had to do it under the burden of the cold war and while carrying our responsibilities for maintaining order and advancing freedom on a world-wide front. I do not believe that we have anything of which to be ashamed, but it is vitally necessary for us now to take stock of the position we have reached and to take certain specific action which I will mention. According to both sides of the House, our spending in total is too high. Our spending is made up of two main elements—investment spending, whether it be for social or economic purposes, and current consumption. I believe that there is no disagreement on that particular point. This has been the case since the end of the war. It is not a phenomenon of the past twelve months. We can see how the curve of our gold and dollar reserves has moved, now going up and now going down, but generally, over a long period, drifting down since the end of the war. We should not make a party point about that. What I am certain has been missing in our economy—and it is clear to all of us that this is the case—is a sufficient supply of fresh savings each year to finance the total of investment spending that we have   sought to make each year. That is the central problem which neither our predecessors nor the present Government have so far fully solved. Many attempts have been made to bridge that particular gap in savings. We have tried all sorts of methods. Governments—and I use the word Government as a non-party expression—have tried physical controls, including direction of labour. They have tried an investment levy and investment allowances. They have tried devaluation to make our imports more expensive and our exports relatively cheaper. They have tried freezing the economy, and they have tried unfreezing the economy. These and many other methods have been attempted by varying Governments of one political colour or another. At times, each has had a temporary success, and for moments or for twelve months the gap has been narrowed, but has then grown again. It is because at no stage has any Government of whichever party succeeded for long enough either in evoking savings to finance investment spending, or in curbing their own expenditure to bring down that expenditure to equal the savings which they could evoke, or, thirdly, perhaps, a combination of those two methods, that no Government has succeeded in that central task for a long enough period of time. I am not sufficient of a technician to be able to state with any certainty at all what price we shall now have to pay to evoke the savings we need if we are to maintain the high rate of investment which I believe is essential for us, but I am quite certain that until the past twelve months a sufficiently high rate has not been offered to investors and savers to encourage them to cut their current consumption in the interests of their future needs. I am certain that that is the one continuous and constant failure common to both parties over this whole post-war period. In the past few days, I have been encouraged by the Measures proposed on a wide front of our economic activities to believe that again we are turning in the right direction, and that we are going to continue to avoid excessive bureaucratic controls, of which in my previous experience outside this House I have had unpleasant and effective experience. I am encouraged to believe that we are now  going to evoke more savings by paying, in other parlance, ""the rate for the job,"" because unless we pay ""the rate for the job"" in savings, as we should do in regard to labour, management and all the other of our activities, we shall not evoke the savings. I trust that in future we shall evoke them, and I trust that the Government will play their part by restraining themselves in precisely the same way as they are asking the public to restrain themselves. I am encouraged by the announcement of my right hon. Friend, and I trust that, in the sense in which we use this term in this House, I shall continue to be a friend both of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his immediate predecessor. I believe I have exceeded my limit. May I return to what I said at the beginning and thank the House with real sincerity for its indulgence on such an occasion as this, with my apologies to it if I have delayed its progress too long?
