gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It has always been regarded, and rightly so, as an honour and a responsibility to address the House of Commons for the first time, and I am deeply sensible of that honour and responsibility. Since the beginning of this Parliament, it has been repeatedly pointed out that it is the custom for a Member making his maiden speech not to be too controversial, and I hope to observe that custom. I am very pleased to be speaking when the House is discussing pensions and insurance. As a member of the party which pioneered the introduction of social security services in the early part of this century, I take real pleasure in seeing the measures which are being introduced to help pensioners and to alleviate hardship wherever it occurs. I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Minister upon her part in bringing these measures about. She has had a very big responsibility. I and my party wish the right hon. Lady the Minister well in her onerous duties. The eyes of the aged and the infirm will always be directed towards the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance. For that reason, we are very disappointed that it is not humanly possible to bring the payments forward at this time. We should have liked to see the payments for old-age pensioners started by Christmas, but we have been told the reasons why this is not possible. I have referred to the question of the earlier payments because I realise the hardship that many old people suffer during the winter months. It is medically accepted, though not widely known to the public, that many old people die of the cold every winter because they have not the money to pay for adequate heating. There are also those who were too old to come into the scheme in 1948 and those who did not qualify because they were self-employed and did not pay insurance contributions. They are in receipt of National Assistance, but we should like to see those classes receiving an adequate income without recourse to National Assistance. When I joined the local authority in my own county, over 30 years ago, I had some experience of working a means test. It was an experience that I would never wish to have to repeat. Notwithstanding the many arguments and counter-arguments, and sometimes the gloomy forecasts made in speeches in this House, I and my party hope that the economy of the country will always be sufficiently strong to enable the Government to obviate the need to apply a means test to people who have served their country faithfully and well as long as they have been able to do so. The abolition of the earnings rule for widows is also timely, and we on this bench warmly welcome it, and are glad to know that this Measure will be introduced fairly soon. Having said that, I should like to refer to my own constituency of Ross and Cromarty. It is a county of great scenic beauty, and the people have long been famous for their hospitality to strangers. Agriculture is our main industry, and here we are making a very valuable contribution to the nation's larder. We produce beef and mutton second to none for quality anywhere in the world, and the bulk of this produce of our county finds its way to the markets in London and other English cities. To confirm this, I was very interested to read this morning the report of the Birmingham Fat Stock Show. This is a big event in the farming calendar. I was most interested to read that the heifer which won the first prize was an animal which one of my neighbours sold to an English farmer three months ago. Tourism is a very fast growing industry in my constituency. People from all the English counties have been going to the Highlands in increasing numbers in recent years. If one looks through the registers of our most important hotels in the Highlands one finds that most of the names are those of people from the Midlands and other English counties. But we have our problems. Depopulation is our biggest single problem in the Highlands. We have been losing our able-bodied people at the rate of 1,500 a year over the past 10 years. No community can view this situation with equanimity. To arrest this decline is our most urgent task. That is why we welcome the proposal in the Queen's Speech to set up a Highland  Development Board. We hope that this Board will be different from many of the other boards and commissions that have been set up in the past to develop the Highlands. Many commissions and panels have been set up over the past 50 years. These bodies in turn appointed working parties and study groups. Admirable reports have been produced by many people who were able and full of good will towards the Highlands. Thereafter, those reports found their way into Government Departments in St. Andrew's House, Edinburgh, and in Whitehall, but I am sorry to say that no further action was taken. As a friend of mine so aptly put it, they were sent to those Government Departments to be consigned to the limbo of forgotten things. I think that we have now come to the crossroads and there is no point in setting up any more ""talking shops"" to investigate the Highland problem. Is there a future, then, for a Highland Development Board? There is indeed. We do not pretend that the task will be an easy one, but it will be very awarding because there is a vast potential to be developed and the money used will prove to be a very sound investment. What is important is the fact that the people will co-operate. While the Opposition party has never come out in favour of such a Board, it is a well-known fact that most of its supporters in the Highlands are wholeheartily in favour of such a body. Speaking as one who has spent his whole life in the Highlands, I can assure the Government that, provided that the Board is set up with the necessary executive powers and financial backing in order to promote development along the right lines, the enthusiasm of the people will far transcend all party barriers and partisan interests in order to make it a success. I thank hon. Members for their indulgence, and I should like to close on a more personal note. Since coming to this House I have met many people who have been extremely well disposed towards my hon. Friends and myself but I regret that very few of them have crossed the Highland line. I cannot help feeling that they would find it much easier to follow our arguments if they had seen the area for themselves. Consequently, I would humbly suggest that when hon. and right hon. Members are arranging their summer holidays they might do   worse than arrange a holiday in the North of Scotland. If they did that—and you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, are included in this—I am sure that they would find it much easier to follow the discussions relating to our problems, and that they would also benefit from the superb scenery and bracing atmosphere of our Highland hills.
