gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that my speech will not be controversial. I shall deal not with what the Minister of Fuel and Power has said, but with things which he did not say. I had expected him to say something about the coal industry There is no doubt that before the nationalisation of the industry scores of pits were uneconomic and suffered financial embarrassments over many years. I have been connected with more than 30 pits in West Yorkshire, and I have more information at present about the industry than the Minister of Fuel and Power has. I have figures here which were probably in my hands before they were in the hands of the Minister, and they lead me to say that anyone who can speak against the nationalisation of the mines is not conversant with the position. The economy of this country is bound up with coal and steel, and if there is to be a crisis this winter, the magnitude of the crisis will depend upon the severity of the winter. As one who has been in touch with thousands of miners and has traversed scores of miles underground, I say that the National Coal Board has done a splendid job during the last few years and that the men have responded well to the call from this House and the trade unions. We must always bear in mind, however, that there is a limit to the endurance of a miner. An hon. Member opposite has said that the efforts last year were a failure, but 500,000 tons of coal have been distributed to domestic users this year, and the Minister did not mention the 25,000 tons of unscreened coal which is being distributed per week to domestic users. The output of coal during the first 43 weeks of this year was 6,500,000 tons more than that produced during the first 44 weeks during last year. Is that not progress? Unfortunately, we have not kept pace with consumption. I listened most eagerly to the Minister of Fuel and Power. What steps will he take? It should be remembered—the miners remember it —that the last time the Conservatives imported American coal was to defeat the miners in 1926, and they did so. The Government's policy should be a positive one and not a negative one. All the Minister said today was that we  must have recruitment; but we must have recruitment of the right material. The Minister said that we must import coal. To my mind there is something far more important, and it has not been said this afternoon. If I had been the Minister of Fuel and Power, I should not have been afraid to commit myself. He must not disturb the good relationships now existing in the coal industry. I was present, together with the chairman of a division, when the Chairman of the National Coal Board told miners that they had all the decentralisation they wanted. The talk about decentralisation is a pure fallacy. I have been connected with the pits for more than 20 years, and the management today have as much power as they had under a private enterprise. In fact, they now have more power. There is no Member in the Chamber who has been in as many pits as I have. The only difference today is that whereas under private enterprise the directors would meet about every two or three months and, if things did not suit them, the manager was told that he could not do as he liked, the manager nowadays has a set policy. In the last five or six years a transformation has taken place in the minim industry, and I have seen it. In 1941, the accident rate in mining reached a high total. From 1941, and particularly from 1945, it has progressively gone down to a low record. I know that mining is a dangerous occupation, and it will never be possible to eliminate all its risks. I hope that the Minister, before he makes any other move, will give due consideration to the question of housing in the mining districts. It is all very well to speak about recruitment, but there must be houses. I am not suggesting that miners shall be a privileged class, but hon. Members opposite have admitted and the Minister has said, that the economy of the country is bound up with coal. If we want increased production, we must offer suitable housing facilities in the mining areas. If they are not forthcoming, we will not have increased recruitment of the right type of men for the industry. I recall the words of my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell), that we must not tamper with the nationalised industries. The   Government will make progress if, first, they seek full consultation, but they must be very careful indeed when talking about decentralisation. The industry has the right spirit. If that can be enlarged upon, I am convinced that, providing the right incentive is given to them, the miners will respond. But the right incentive has not been forthcoming. Why has no positive gesture been made by the Government this afternoon? We have not had any gesture whatever which will strike a note in the mining districts. My concluding word is to express the hope that before he reaches any final decision the Minister will act in full consultation with all parties concerned.
