gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I begin by paying tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Henderson, who during his period of service in this House worked most assiduously for his constituents. In that connection he was carrying on the highest tradition of Members elected for Aberdeenshire, East, and I hope that I shall be able to carry on that tradition and dedication during my time in this House. I am delighted to have the opportunity of addressing the House for the first time. I represent that fine constituency of Aberdeenshire, East, which is a long way from this Chamber. But, thanks to modern travel, I am able to commute to this lovely City of London—to the Palace of Westminster—take part in the proceedings of the House, and then return to the green fields of the beautiful agricultural areas in my constituency and the rolling waves of the North Sea, where the oil and gas come ashore to aid this country's economy. Aberdeenshire, East has one of the largest fishing communities in Europe. From the harbours of Fraserburgh and Peterhead, the fishing fleet sails out to catch fish not only for human consumption but also for the fish processing industry, which has many factories in my constituency. This industry plays a large part in the export drive. The fishermen have a hazardous job, often in very rough seas, and, sadly, a few of the boats never return to harbour. This leaves the community to face another disaster, with the   wives and children mourning the loss of the bread-winner. In this context I wish to draw attention to a matter which affects every industry, because when calamities like this take place they leave behind the widows. There are 3 million widows in Britain today and I wish to remind the Chancellor of their plight. I am aware that in the past many right hon. and hon. Members have fought for the rights and pensions of widows, but with very little success. Therefore, I make no apology for bringing the matter before the House once more. I am very pleased that the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes to complete the exemption from tax of war widows' pensions. The Royal British Legion, of which I am proud to be a member, has fought very hard for this, and I am sure that that organisation will be delighted to learn of the Chancellor's decision. However, I remind the Chancellor that many of the widows today are in that category because their husbands died after the war as a result of wounds sustained during the war. Those widows do not enjoy the rights of being classified as war widows. I want all tax to be removed from all widows' pensions. I also want to see the existing anomalies removed. I urge the Chancellor to give us an indication that he will consider these matters. When a woman is widowed, she falls into one of several categories. Up to the age of 39 she receives £27·30 for 26 weeks, after which she receives nothing at all. Surely it is quite wrong to assume that she can go out to work or remarry. She may neither have the health nor the capacity to take on a job, and she is more than likely to have children of school age. She may not wish to remarry. Yet the State forces her after the 26-week period to take one of these alternatives or to throw herself on to the social security system. Widows aged between 40 and 49 receive a pension ranging from £5·85 a week to £18·14 a week. From 50 to 60 years of age the rate is £19·50. I have purposely omitted mentioning children's or earnings-related allowances to widows, as many are out with these categories. For those who are, the difference is not significant enough to improve the desperate situation in which those widows find themselves. The widows receive no unemployment or sickness benefit. They cannot apply for industrial injury benefit, education grants, maternity or invalidity allowances. Even the child benefit is deducted from the widow's benefit pound for pound. They are in a constant poverty trap—and it is a trap from which this House must remove them. Why should widows' pensions not be paid in full on the same scale to all widows rather than have the variations which now exist? Why should all these other anomalies exist when the husbands had paid national insurance contributions all their working lives so that in the event of their death the widows would receive a proper pension? Then there is the worst feature of all—the taxing of the widow's pension if she chooses, by need or desire, to take up employment. It is wrong that the pension should be taxed when the purpose of providing the allowance was to support the widow in the event of the husband's death. By all means tax the earned income, but leave the widow's pension alone and give the widows the full benefit of that allowance. I ask my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give serious consideration to improving the lot of these 3 million widows—a figure which increases daily. Will he endeavour to remove the anomalies by providing a standard widow's pension for all age groups, and grant the various benefits which are not now available to widows? Will he also indicate whether it is possible to bring in the complete tax exemption for widow's pension, as is being proposed for the existing war widows? We have a moral obligation to look after these widows. Other needy groups may criticise, but if we make a start with a group which is the largest and which is suffering most, we shall at least have made some headway for others in the future. Greater recognition should be given to the changed circumstances of married women after the death of their husbands. I further ask my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor seriously to consider amending legislation on the income tax liability, pension rights and social security rights of all widows, irrespective of age, on the death, of the husband. If we can do something for the 3 million widows who have lost their loved ones,   we shall have the satisfaction of knowing that we have achieved something that is badly needed. We shall also be seen to be a caring House, and we shall earn the gratitude not only of the widows but of the nation itself.
