gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first occasion on which I venture to address this House I shall not attempt to cover the whole range of subjects mentioned in the Amendment moved by my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell). I want rather to draw attention to the last phrase of the Amendment, which expresses doubt whether this Government are likely to bring about a more equitable distribution of wealth. I very much share that doubt. Last Thursday, and again at Question Time today, we heard the Prime Minister—and we have just heard the Chancellor, in his concluding remarks—refer to such things as profit sharing and co-partnership. We have heard the phrase ""property-owning democracy."" These  phrases, if they were taken at their face value, would lead us to believe that ordinary working people are now to be invited to enter the citadel of property ownership from which, hitherto, they have been almost entirely excluded. I do not believe that we are likely to see any such transformation under this Government. Indeed, I doubt whether the Government realise the full implication of a phrase which they have attempted to make their own, the phrase ""a property-owning democracy."" What is the present position with regard to the private ownership of capital? The most recent estimate I have seen is that given by Mrs. Kathleen Langley, in the Bulletin of the Oxford University Institute of Statistics for January, 1954. I shall not trouble the House with any of the details of the analysis which she makes, but shall content myself with the general conclusion which is to be drawn from the tables which she gives. That general conclusion is that two-thirds of the adult population have virtually no capital holdings whatever, but at the other end, the top end, of the scale a mere 1½ per cent. of the adult population own as much as 50 per cent. of the privately-owned capital of the country. So, clearly, our present situation is that we are very far indeed from a property-owning democracy. Indeed, our situation can more properly be described as that of a property-owning oligarchy. We can recall, those of us who know anything of the development of political institutions, that the change from political oligarchy to political democracy was a painful process, and a process resisted by those who enjoyed the power of oligarchy. I should say that in the economic sphere, also, the change from an economic oligarchy to an economic democracy is likely to be a most fundamental and a most difficult and, to some people, a most painful process, and one which is most likely to be resisted by those who at present enjoy the advantages of the existing situation. What are the methods which the Government invite us to believe will enable this change from the present situation to that of a property-owning democracy to come about? Apparently, we are to rely upon profit-sharing schemes, of which the most recent examples have been those of Imperial Chemical Industries and, even   more recently, of the Rolls-Royce Company. Before we become too enthusiastic about these things, I invite the House to consider the very modest nature of some of these profit-sharing schemes. In his concluding remarks, the Chancellor himself threw in an aside that he recognised their limitations. Imperial Chemical Industries, which makes a trading profit of about £39 million per annum, proposes to distribute to its workers something which will cost that combine no more than £400,000. When we look into these schemes we find that in every case they are little more than a few crumbs which are allowed to fall from the rich directors' table. But even more important is the question of control, and none of these schemes in any way envisages the passing over of control to the workers in the industry, whatever the particular financial circumstances of the scheme. I would refer the House to the ""Economist"" of 22nd May last year which, in commenting on the I.C.I. scheme, said: The annual issue of 500,000 shares to employees would in time confer upon them a substantial interest in the company, but""— and this is the important point— not one that is ever likely to wield control, for there will be £190 million of Ordinary capital in issue when the scheme begins. That, of course, is the whole crux of this matter of the redistribution of property. It is a complete misnomer to suggest that democracy can be applied to these schemes. As I conceive it, democracy means putting power into the hands of ordinary men and women. These profit-sharing schemes never do and never will do that, and I have very little faith in them. I believe that they will not bring about any radical redistribution of ownership, and certainly no radical redistribution of power. If I reject the schemes, the House is entitled to ask in what I put my faith to achieve what I believe to be the desirable objective of an economic democracy in our industrial and commercial affairs. There are a number of methods. If I am fortunate on future occasions in catching your eye, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, perhaps I shall have the opportunity of dealing with some of them. This afternoon I propose to deal only with one, and that is the method which we employ  with great success in the great Co-operative movement, of which I am proud to be a loyal and active member. It is not always realised, and certainly not in the House, that we have in the Co-operative movement a very tine example of a real property-owning democracy. If we look at its property-owning aspects, we find that it has assets worth about £600 million, which is a tremendous and magnificent achievement when one realises that these assets have been built—quite literally—out of the pennies and shillings and hard toil of millions of ordinary working people over the years. That commercial undertaking of the Co-operative movement is now larger than the industrial capitalist combines such as Unilever and Imperial Chemical Industries, but there is a vital difference. Whereas those are the property of a comparatively few shareholders, the ownership of the great Co-operative movement is in the hands of nearly 12 million ordinary men and women with an average shareholding of little more than £20. That is the property-owning aspect of this Co-operative movement. What about its democracy? It is a cardinal feature of our organisation that one man or one woman has only one vote, in contradistinction to the system of capitalist concerns where voting power goes according to wealth and the possession of shares. In a Co-operative society a man who has £1 has equal democratic rights with a man who has £100, and it is impossible to buy control in the Cooperative movement. It is men and women who count and not the wealth which they possess. In the board rooms all over the country every week, evening after evening, the affairs of the Co-operative movement are carried on by laymen—by railwaymen, housewives, miners, engineers and ordinary working folk who are there by virtue of the fact that they have been democratically elected by their fellow co-operators and willingly give their time to serve this movement of which they are rightly proud. If the word which is being discussed is ""co-partnership,"" I would direct attention to what I believe to be the only real form of co-partnership—the Co-operative co-partnership societies, of which there are interesting examples in the Midlands and in London. They are   a very different form of social organisation from the co-partnership schemes which we hear spoken of from the benches opposite and from the Liberal Party. The vital difference is that in the Co-operative co-partnership societies there is a very real measure of workers' control. Two-thirds of the members of the management committees of these societies are actually workers on the floor of the factory. I claim that to be a very real measure of industrial democracy, just as I claim that the wider, bigger, consumer Co-operative movement is a very real example of commercial democracy. We have been very glad to welcome a development since the end of the war in co-operation among farmers. They have learned that it is possible and valuable to do together in co-operation things which they used to try to do, and very often failed to do, alone and individually —the purchase of machinery, the cooperative purchase of seed and fertilisers and the co-operative marketing of their produce. There has been a remarkable development of that kind of thing, and in that connection the valuable work of the Agricultural Co-operative Association, Ltd., has much to commend it. I believe that there is no sphere of human endeavour in which it is not possible for the principles of co-operation to be applied with very great advantage. I believe that it is possible for consumers, industrial workers and farmers to come together, as we have proved they can come together, and establish their co-operative societies with very great effect. They eliminate profit rather than share it. They eliminate the privilege of wealth. They act on democratic principles of election and, as I have said before, in their organisations men and women count rather than wealth. All too often democracy is regarded purely as a political concept. We think in terms of political parties, polling booths, ballot papers, town halls and Parliaments. All that is vitally important, and I do not disregard it, but, in my judgment, democracy is, and ought to be conceived as, very much more than that. We need democracy not simply in politics. We need democracy in commerce, in industry, in agriculture and in the whole conduct of social affairs. Only when we have achieved a society which  is democratic in all those varied senses can we rest content that we have achieved a truly democratic society, a society which, I know, all Members of this House claim to set as the objective of their work but a society which some of us in this House, notably on this side, are determined that we will do all we possibly can to achieve.
