gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It gives me great pleasure to follow my good friend the hon. Member for Caerphilly (Mr. Evans). I believe that he would expect me to refer to my very good friend of many years' standing, my predecessor, Alan Beaney. I was aware that Alan Beaney was very well respected by right hon. and hon. Members on both sides of the House. What I was not aware of was the tremendous affection for him felt by all, by servants of the House as well as by right hon. and hon. Members. I understand that he was known as the kindly Member by all who knew him. I congratulate the House on its adequate description, for Alan Beaney is the kindest man I know. My most gratifying duty to date has been to convey to him and to Mrs. Beaney many messages of good wishes and hopes for a long and happy retirement for them both. Representing, as I do, the mining constituency of Hemsworth, it seems appropriate that I should make my maiden speech during this debate on the coal mining industry. In Hemsworth we have nine active pits and a central area workshops establishment. One of the pits is the famous Ferrymoor Riddings Mine, which in March 1971 set up a European output record of 364 cwt per man-shift, which is about seven times the national average. That record still stands. In the Hemsworth area we have enjoyed for many years in the brass band world the friendly rivalry between Frickley and Grimethorpe collieries, which between them have for many years held the championship trophy of the British coalfields. While in the world of music, I must not forget to mention the famous Thurnscoe male   voice choir, which draws most of its members from Hickleton Main, and is well-known all over the country at music festivals. There is a similar rivalry between those three pits and my own, South Kirkby, in first aid. At present Grimethorpe seems to have the edge, in as much as it has won the famous Mitchell Hedges Trophy, the blue riband of first aid. There are times when collieries receive notoriety for which they have no wish, and which they do not deserve. That happened at my colliery in 1935, when an explosion claimed 10 lives, including that of my brother. We suffered an explosion at Barnburgh colliery in 1956, and at the same colliery in 1941 there was a massive roof fall in which several men were buried. There was a similar incident at its nextdoor neighbour, Hickleton Main, where my predecessor worked. In the 1960s a further massive roof fall occurred there. Alan Beaney's son was then the captain of one of the colliery rescue teams which battled to rescue the men. It was an operation for which they received the Daily Herald award for industrial heroism. The citation for that award is still carried proudly on the Hickleton Main union branch banner. Such incidents happen almost every day in coal mining life. These are the things which bind miners together into a brotherhood, unseen, unspoken and sometimes defying description. Nevertheless it is always there when it is needed. Hemsworth is a typical mining area, an area of which James Nicholson said in the Financial Times on 14th March, in an article on the Yorkshire Region: It needs new jobs, new science-based industry turning out high value products which will offer better profits and therefore better wages and better working conditions. This is true. We have in the Hemsworth area a male unemployment rate of 9·2 per cent. as against 3·8 per cent. for Yorkshire and Humberside and 3·6 per cent. for the rest of the country. Included in the Hemsworth figure are 27 boys under the age of 18 who have probably never had a job since they left one of our famous comprehensive high schools. We are too dependent upon one large industry. My good friends and colleagues of the Hemsworth Rural District Council  were well aware of this when in 1948 they did the spadework and invited the Prime Minister, then the President of the Board of Trade, to open the Langthwaite Grange estate at South Kirkby. What my friends did not foresee was the advent of the motorway juggernaut. We are situated in the centre of the motorway box and desperately need an improvement to the entrance to the estate. We also greatly need a road-widening scheme for the approach road, especially the county road C4, from Moorthorpe to Bamsdale Bar. This road widening is particularly necessary on the stretch known as Minsthorpe Lane. The widening of the Minsthorpe railway bridge is also a priority because the massive vehicles coming from the motorways are causing havoc in the area. A further environmental problem is subsidence. This has prevented some of the local authorities in my area, notably Dearne Urban District Council, from availing themselves of the housing improvement scheme. In case hon. and right hon. Members are getting a jaundiced view of a mining area let me list a few of our achievements. In the Cudworth area we have one of the finest, if not the finest, sporting complexes in the North of England. The money was raised by local effort supplemented by ministerial grant. Naturally, it was named after Cudworth's most famous daughter, and is known as the Dorothy Hyman centre. Only three weeks ago in my own Hemsworth urban area my good friend of many years, Councillor Jim Starling who has served the Hemsworth UDC for 32 years, officially opened the new sporting complex at Fitzwilliam. This is a joint urban district council and CISWO enterprise. It contains a new cricket pavilion and is situated a cricket ball's throw from the home of our most famous son, the world's No. 1 batsman, Geoff Boycott. Hon. and right hon. Gentlemen may be interested to know that I am wearing the Geoff Boycott benefit tie. This year is his benefit year. I am assured that I can have as many as I can manage to order at £1·25 each. Before leaving Fitzwilliam I would like to mention the removal of the dirt stack at the closed Hemsworth colliery site. Hemsworth UDC and the West Riding County Council agreed upon plans for its   removal, after which it was hoped to landscape the area and lay out a golf course. Unfortunately, the contents of the stack have been found to be ideal material for motorway construction. Extraction has gone on and has delayed the plan. The Wakefield Metropolitan District Council has agreed to adopt the plan, which is becoming more urgent as more and more golf enthusiasts are taking up the game and having to travel to Barnsley, Pontefract and Wakefield to indulge in their favourite sport. These are matters which mean a lot to my constituents. It is necessary to mention them if for no other reason than to point out to hon. Members the new image of the miner. We are no longer a cloth cap and muffler community interested only in running dogs and racing pigeons, although we still have these. The modern miner is a skilled technologist, not only a man who knows how to work with the new and sophisticated equipment, but a man who invents, builds and operates this vast and complicated machinery. He is a man who is proud of his calling and of his skill. It is significant that the week before last miners in the Doncaster area, part of which is in my constituency, achieved an output 1 per cent. above last October's level. That was a remarkable achievement so soon after a month's stoppage. The miner is tremendously loyal to his comrades, his country, his Sovereign and this Government. He is proving it by his efforts. He wants to get this country back on to and well along the road to complete economic recovery.
