gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech today, Mr. Probert, I am very conscious of the fact that there are here many time-honoured customs and conventions. If I should inadvertently break any of these, I claim the indulgence of the Committee. I am very proud to be the representative in this House of the Rhondda, West constituency, which has been represented here by many worthy figures, such as Mabon, Will John and Iorwerth Thomas, men who earned their right to be here by the part they played in the industrial and political struggles of South Wales. There were occasions when as a result of their efforts they earned a term of imprisonment. Although I seek to emulate them in certain ways, I trust that I may be saved from the cost of a prison sentence. My immediate predecessor was  Iorrie Thomas. Not only was he my predecessor, but he was my friend. I have been very pleased to hear high tributes paid to him from both sides of he House, and to learn of the great regard in which he was held here. I have heard very pleasantly of his kindness to new hon. Members. I know of his hatred of hypocrisy. I know of his tenacity and determination to fight for things in which he believed. Above all, I have been pleased to hear since coming here of how hon. and right hon. Members appreciated the long years of service which Iorrie gave to this House and to my people of Rhondda. Rhondda is known throughout the world for coal and for its long history of political and industrial struggles. We began in 1871 with a population of 24,000 and rose to a peak of 163,000 by 1921, and we have now slumped to less than 100,000. The rise and fall in our population reflects the rise and fall of the coal mining industry and also the industrial stability and well-being of the people of Rhondda. As one who was brought up with the background of colliery accident and colliery explosion—explosions have taken place even in very recent years—I would not want to see a return to the old days. But I must express the very deep feelings of the people of Rhondda in telling our own Government that we had a right to expect that there would have been a halt to pit closures until alternative employment had been provided. An important consequence of the pit closure programme was the fact that the Rhondda Borough Council in January last year lost rateable value of £23,000. While this is made up from the rate resources grant, it certainly has the effect of stultifying local initiative. With the end of coal as the base of our economy, we in Rhondda are taking part in a new and ofttimes more bitter struggle than that in which we took part previously, because we must now seek to create a new industrial basis upon which to build a new future for our people, and from this Government more than any other the people of Rhondda expect the greatest possible assistance. I would say in passing that we do not believe that any attempt to reduce even our political   representation at this juncture will help us in this struggle for a new Rhondda. Since 1934 Rhondda has been in receipt of varying forms of Government assistance. We have been called a distressed area, a special area, a development district and now a development area—all different names to express the same essential need. While the names have been changed, it is with regret that I must say that the needs and problems of Rhondda are still acute today. At present there is a high level of unemployment, about 9 pr cent., which is more than twice the average for the rest of Wales and four times the national average. These figures justify the protest which the electors of Rhondda made on 9th March. If we in Rhondda were able to find that our unemployment level was as low as many hon. Members consider the national average to be high, we should be celebrating this as a tremendous victory. I would say on behalf of our people, as evidence of the pride of the people of Rhondda, as evidence of our industry and as evidence of our thrift and willingness to work, that three quarters of the houses in Rhondda are owner-occupied. This in itself presents a very considerable problem when people talk rather loosely about the mobility of labour. What we seek in Rhondda is not some permanent Government assistance or charity. We have had examples of that for 34 years. We seek the reality of an industrial redevelopment which will enable us to stand on our own feet and build a future for ourselves. I appreciate and understand many of the actions which the Government have taken. I know that many plans have been made. But I must repeat the sentiments of Oliver Twist and say that we want more; we want the improvements which have been promised to be carried out a great deal more speedily. This afternoon we were told about advance factories and the fact that 100 have been allocated. This is good. It will be welcome not only in Rhondda but throughout the country. Two factories have been allocated to Rhondda: one in September, 1965, and one in May, 1966. But at the moment the word ""advance"" baffles me, because not yet have two bricks been laid one on top of the other. While I appreciate the  difficulty of acquiring sites in the Rhondda and know the tedious and protracted processes of negotiations for the acquisition of land, I urge the Government to tackle these problems with the same urge, drive and energy as were shown during the war when land was needed for the construction of airfields and other military installations, for in Rhondda this is a war, a fight for our very survival. We welcomed the Industrial Development Act, 1966, because it now makes available to industrialists the largest inducements of all time to build new factories inside development areas like Rhondda. But I feel that there is still a reluctance to do so. So I urge the Government not to close their eyes to the desirability of setting up Government-owned and operated factories in those areas, because if private enterprise cannot or will not bring employment to areas like Rhondda I believe that the Government should take the next logical step and embark on new public enterprises. I ask all my right hon. Friends who head Departments of the Government to examine them to see whether inside them there are developments which could take place on the lines of public enterprise. I should be failing in my duty to my constituents if I ignored the effects of the Selective Employment Tax on areas like Rhondda. It is obvious that there is an adverse effect on the distributive trades in many areas, but to some areas it is proving particularly crippling. The Mid-Rhondda Co-operative Society, not a very big one, already pays £5,770 in Selective Employment Tax in six months. However, today I am concerned not only with the financial aspect but with the effect of the Selective Employment Tax on employment. That small co-operative society has been forced to cut its staff by 22. The Selective Employment Tax has been referred to as an instrument for the redeployment of labour. I beg hon. Members to appreciate that in an area like Rhondda there can be no redeployment of labour because no alternative employment exists. I welcome on behalf of Rhondda and many other areas the Chancellor's modest steps yesterday in modifying Selective Employment Tax for certain part-time people. I was very pleased to hear the Chancellor repeat words which   we have uttered on many occasions about unemployment: As regards unemployment … the problem is basically inside the development areas"". This is something which we have felt in South Wales. I am sure that my colleagues from the North and from Scotland all feel the same way, that inside the development areas lie the chief examples of our high levels of unemployment. I liked the Chancellor's statement that: … the position is still not nearly good enough.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th April; Vol. 744, c. 984–5.] If I had been speaking in some other place I would have expressed that view, but in much stronger language. As a new boy here I am reluctant today to use the language that the situation needs and justifies. Finally, I turn to last week's proposal for regional employment premiums inside the development areas. That has been suggested to mean a £10 million or £12 million boost for the manufacturing industries of Wales. We in the Rhondda welcome any such step, but whilst accepting the principle I urge the Government to consider that it be made even more selective than they already suggest, because there are great differences of need inside the development areas. There are great differences in the levels of unemployment and in the extent of the problems of depopulation. While it is true that all parts of all development areas have need, it is equally true that some have a greater need than others. I suggest that we might have different rates of the regional employment premium in the development areas, and the criteria might well be the levels of unemployment and the extent of depopulation. Even as it is, I welcome the proposal, because the premium is likely to attract new industry to the development areas and particularly to my own area of Rhondda, but if it were made more selective, it would provide extra assistance and incentive, particularly to bad black spots of unemployment such as my area now is. To me and the people of Rhondda it would fulfil those essential ideals which we have held for a long time, those Socialist ideals of, ""To each according to his needs"".
