gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The only thought that consoles me in presenting my maiden speech is the knowledge that almost every other hon. Member has at some time or other suffered from the same emotions and turbulence that I am experiencing. I have the honour of representing the constituency of Glasgow, Pollok, which was represented in the last Parliament by Sir John George. Sir John George was a very highly respected individual in Pollok and, from what I can gather, a very highly respected individual on both sides of this House. It is my hope that I will be able to represent the electors of Pollok as well in this Parliament as Sir John did in the last. Pollok is not an industrial area. It can aptly be described as a dormitory constituency in so far as most of its residents are required to travel out-with its boundaries in order to perform their daily tasks. As it is a dormitory area, the people of Pollok automatically become the victims of all the ills which normally befall an area of under-employment such as Glasgow. When an industry closes down or a factory goes on short time anywhere in or near the City of Glasgow, this has an adverse effect on at least some of my constituents. I share with every individual in Scotland the sincere hope that the Government will speed their proposals to bring back industry north of the Border. Industrialists need not be afraid to move there. My fellow Scots are a keen, energetic and industrious people if given a chance and any industrialist who moves there will, I can assure him, be very well rewarded. Pollok contains within its boundaries the ancient village of Pollokshaws.  History has it that this is the place where the ""queer folk"" come from. Pollokshaws village is rapidly losing its air of quaintness. This is a direct result of the massive redevelopment plans of Glasgow Corporation. Old buildings are disappearing and are being replaced by multi-storey blocks of flats which are providing the most modern type of accommodation for residents of the area. Also within my constituency are the lands of Sir John Stirling Maxwell, of Pollok, comprising several acres of magnificent estate. Pollok House, on the estate, was built by Robert Adam in 1752 and contains a magnificent collection of paintings, some by Goya, El Greco and William Blake. The owners of Pollok Estate have offered to Glasgow Corporation the site to house the world-famour Burrell art collection which, for the past 20 years, for want of a home, has been hidden in storage up and down the country. It is confidently assumed now in many quarters that at long last a suitable site has been found and that, before very long, this priceless collection will go on view for the world to see. Whatever differences emerge in this debate, I think that it is true to say that this Bill will be welcomed throughout the nation. Most of us recognise the need for increased benefits, and my right hon. Friend the Minister of Pensions and National Insurance is to be congratulated on introducing it so early in this Parliament. I recognise that parliamentary convention lays it down that maiden speeches shall be non-controversial, but it is sometimes rather difficult to be non-controversial when one is discussing a subject like this which is so fundamental to social justice. However, I trust that if I do stray over the borders of convention I will be excused. I have two reservations about the Bill. First, there is the extent of the increases proposed. These are very welcome and are much higher than any increases proposed over the past 10 or 12 years, but no one will be deluded into thinking that these will be sufficiently high to meet the needs of the categories involved. My second reservation concerns the date on which the increases become effective. If one is a pensioner it is not easy, or palatable, to be told that one must wait for several months. It is apt to remind   one of the soldier writing home, ""Dear Mum, I am sending you ten bob but not this week."" While appreciating the administrative difficulties of bringing into effect these increases at any early date, I trust that the Government will ensure that this extensive delay will not recur. It is to be hoped that the Government will see to it that future increases are paid when they are required and not several months later. I was glad to hear my right hon. Friend state that she is considering more modern methods of paying pensions. It seems to me rather ironic that there should be even the slightest criticism of this Bill from the benches opposite because, as an inexperienced Member, it strikes me that what is being done by the Bill is merely to repair all the damage which has been allowed to creep in over the past few years. The Bill should not have been introduced now; it should have been introduced at least 12 months ago. The pensioners are a section of the community all too easy to forget. We—and I mean the general public—tend to accept that they have served their purpose in life and are now merely a burden on the State. We must not forget that, because of their lifelong devotion to the service of the community, we in the younger generation are able to live in a democratic society and enjoy the full fruits of their labour. I trust that the Government will very soon consider the prospect of removing from the provision of social security the horrible stigma of National Assistance. There must be many thousands of people who qualify for National Assistance, but who, because of a false sense of pride, elect to do without. I hope that the Government will soon carry out a complete reappraisal of the scale of pensions with a view to bringing them to such a level that those involved need not have to seek other methods of assistance. Every year that passes sees more and more people living to a greater age. If for nothing else, common decency demands that they be allowed to live in retirement in comfort and without worry. We as a nation stand condemned for so long disregarding the  plight of the elderly and we do not and will not merit acquittal until we have established them in a position of social and financial independence.
