gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make my maiden speech, I am pleased indeed that the debate is on coal,  because that is the industry in which I have spent all my working life I was pleased that my hon. Friend the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Michael Foot) mentioned the lack of working knowledge on the industry in the House. As a working miner of not so long ago, I believe that I have the necessary knowledge to speak in the debate. This is a vital debate for the industry. It is vital to my constituency of Hamilton and to all the coalfields in Britain, particularly the Scottish coalfields. It is vital, indeed, to the economy of Britain. I hope that a new look will be taken in the debate not only at the industry but, more important, at the people who work in it and those who depend on them. I am very proud to stand here as the Member for Hamilton following two hard and strenuous election campaigns. Hamilton is not now a purely mining constituency. It has varied industrial potential, and the mining labour force has diminished considerably over the past few years. But there are areas in my constituency which are basically mining communities, both in character and culture. When one considers the representation my constituency has had since it became a constituency over 50 years ago, the names of Duncan Graham and the Right Hon. Tom Fraser come easily to mind. Tom Fraser spoke from the Front Bench on behalf of the coal industry on many occasions. When I think of my predecessors, I am deeply conscious of the honour bestowed on me and the task before me. My responsibilities towards the miners of Great Britain and towards my constituency are equally great. Having worked in the coal mines all my working life, I take it for granted that everyone in the House is aware that the industry in Scotland has contracted at an alarming rate over the past few years. It has contracted so alarmingly that huge areas have been left derelict of industry and in some places even denuded of population. It was only because of the efforts of the last Administration that we began to see the light in Scotland. Too many events have caused miners to lose the confidence they should have in their industry. Therefore, the Government should take heed and show a sense of responsibility now when considering the prospects or otherwise of the industry and those who work in it. The overall fuel needs of the country should be considered as a whole, but, as the main indigenous fuel, coal has the right to be protected and it needs more protection. We have lived too long in Britain on the basis of cheap coal and cheap labour in the coal mines. We should bring in an improvement on the Coal Bill which would have been introduced but for a mistake on 18th June. It is remarkable that we have contrived a coal shortage in this country. ""Contrived"" is the word. Although my colleagues in the House repeatedly warned Governments about what would happen, nobody listened to them when they spoke both here and outside about the fuel supply problem that would face us. Events have shown the White Paper of 1967 to have been completely wrong in its estimates. It is up to the House and the new Government to see that the same mistake is not made in the estimates for fuel over the next decade or two. The recent possibility of a strike has been mentioned. The miners bent over backwards being democratic on this occasion. If they had not had a truly democratic organisation, by this time today the country would have faced a shortage of coal, because we do not have the stocks. There is a serious shortage of coking coal, primarily caused by mistaken estimates resulting in the premature closing of coking coal collieries. But for that lack of foresight we could have had in our possession millions of pounds-worth of coal for export. This combination of circumstances is already helping to make the miners and their families just that little bit cynical, particularly when appeals are made for a further increase in production. The lessons which the miners have learned have been learned bitterly. The patriotism which they have shown over the years and their acceptance of miserable pittances instead of the increases for which they have applied have finally resulted in their decision over the last two or three weeks to go nearer to the top of the wages table after having dropped from first to sixteenth place. How are we to tackle the problems of the industry? A number of suggestions will be made from this side of the House and there have been some already. The first and the most im-  portant is that the Government, without delay, should carry out a capital reconstruction of the National Coal Board and the industry. That would take into account the outstanding working profit which has been made in the industry since 1947 on the backs of the miners and it would write off the existing payments of capital made to the former coal owners. The Government should write off the interest payments and allow the industry to stand on its own feet. It has made a working profit every year without exception since 1947 and this would be clearly apparent if the Government wiped out the capital debt and the loss, which is only a bookkeeping loss. These are some of the factors which have militated against the miners over the last several years as they have attempted to improve working conditions and conditions in their villages and towns. The miners have been robbed because of their patriotism and because of their belief in democracy within their own union. There are other suggestions which I should like to be bold enough to make in a maiden speech. Everyone should recognise that the miner's job is such that he cannot be expected to be happy, even with the increase offered recently by Lord Robens. Have hon. Members forgotten the arduous nature of the miner's job? Have they forgotten that dangers to life and limb are accepted by the miner as part and parcel of his job whenever he goes down the pit? It is becoming clearer to ordinary people that there are other dangers inherent in the job. There is the near certainty of the development of pneumoconiosis, or what I make so bold as to say are the associated diseases of emphysema and bronchitis. We ought not to consider just pounds, shillings and pence when we discuss what is to be done in the Coal Bill. Without being presumptuous, may I ask how many hon. Members know the abominable conditions in which some miners work? I feel deeply for those former colleagues of mine, who at this moment are miles below the ground winning coal for industry and for homes. There are innumerable suggestions to be made when we debate the Coal Bill. A maiden speech must be short and to the point and I will, therefore, not make   them now. I thank the House for listening attentively and patiently to me. For me, this is a vital debate. I hope that, as a result of it, there will quickly develop a new compassion for those who work in the industry and that there will be a new view—or at least a continuation of the view of the last Administration—about the social consequences of pit closures which are the result of the exhaustion of coal seams. The country's fuel resources are such that we can no longer afford to close pits purely on the basis of economics. A good start would be made if the Coal Board decided to act humanely and to give the miners all the increase for which they have asked. However, that is a matter for the unions and not for hon. Members. I shall be content with some of the suggestions which I have made and which some of my colleagues have made and which I hope the Government will accept in the new Coal Bill so that we may look forward to a stable industry with fair treatment for those who work in it so that coal may take its proper place within the economy of Britain.
