gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me this opportunity to speak in the House for the first time. I hesitate to use the word ""maiden"" because there are some members of the women's movement in my constituency who query that adjective. Many years ago, when I was canvassing during the course of an earlier election campaign, I rang the doorbell of a multi-occupied house and a lady and a small child of about four came to the door. I did not know who she was because the doorbells did not have names on them. I stated that I was canvassing, and the lady slammed the door in my face. As I was puzzling which name I should mark as being a supporter of the opposite party to my own, the door again opened, the lady with the small child was still there, and she said to the child ""There is nothing to see. It is only a politician."" That comment set me thinking, over the years, whether we politicians—I presume I have now become one through becoming a Member of the House—have established the right level of credibility with the people whom we represent. If the people sneer at us and say ""It is only a politician"" and slam the door—I believe that was not an isolated reaction—we must be careful to ensure that we do not distance ourselves too far from the communities and the people whom we represent. My predecessor, Ernie Perry, was a Member of this House from 1964 to 1979. He was undefeated throughout his series of election campaigns. He had been on Wandsworth borough council, had previously served on Battersea council—indeed, he had been a mayor of Battersea  —and whilst in the House was an assistant Government Whip. I also mention another previous Member of Parliament, Mrs. Ganley, born 100 years ago this year, who served Battersea, South from 1945 to 1951 and was an active Socialist and co-operator in the London area. Battersea, South is a constituency which has suffered more than its share of boundary changes, and I suspect that it may indeed disappear when the next lot of boundary changes are announced in the course of, I believe, this week. Batter-sea, South has also suffered through being a typical inner city area. It has suffered from a declining population and the effect that that has had on local services. It has suffered because of the disappearance of much employment, and it is suffering so much because of poor public transport that one could almost say that the main occupation in Battersea, South is waiting for a bus, a tube train or a train. As with so many inner city areas, Battersea, South has been under attack over the years. Perhaps a symbol of the attack on Battersea is what occurred as recently as last week to the mural on what was locally called ""Morgan's wall"" the remains of which can still be seen as one comes over Battersea Bridge. I appreciate that that it is not in Battersea, South. It is in Battersea, North. However, it has been a symbol of the whole community. It was a vivid mural, depicting the feelings of the people of Battersea. That mural was bulldozed at three o'clock one morning last week in order to prevent people knowing that it was happening. It was an act of stealth, and in some ways it symbolised the sort of attacks that are made on people who live in inner city areas. I appreciate that one is not supposed to be controversial when making one's first speech in the House, but that is difficult if one has recently been elected in the course of a controversial campaign and when one represents a constituency in an area which has, perhaps, one of the most controversial local authorities in the country. I am speaking of Wandsworth council. Wandsworth town hall is in my constituency, and since the Conservative Party won control last year Wandsworth council has been held up as the sort of   local authority which typifies, at local level, what the Conservative Party would wish to do nationally if it had the chance. Indeed, the Conservative Party now has that chance and we have seen, in today's Budget, how it intends to use it. Before the Government get too excited about the opportunities that are ahead of them over the next few years, perhaps I could just comment that although there was a big swing to the Conservatives during the local elections in Wandsworth last year, there was a large swing away from the Conservatives in the general election. I doubt very much whether I should be here today had the people of my constituency not had the evidence before them of what happens when a council such as Wandsworth comes under Conservative control. In terms of the Budget, I believe that many of the fundamental problems facing our economy have not come to light over the last few years, or, indeed, the last 25 years. Many of the real problems facing our economy have been with us for 100 years or longer. What we have seen is a steady trend of events which have weakened our economic position as a country on a long-term basis. Therefore, I should like to make a judgment of the Budget both in terms of its short-term effects on the people in my constituency, and others, and in terms of whether it will make a long-term contribution to the real problems that affect the British economy. Without wishing to enter into any area of controversy, I do not see that this Budget will do much for people of the inner city areas such as Battersea in terms of providing more jobs or making it possible for local authorities to improve housing conditions, or, indeed, that it will do anything significant about achieving economic growth, which I believe is the key to creating more jobs. I find it difficult to see how our long-term economic problems will be solved unless one Chancellor or another introduces a measure of import control to make possible the more rapid economic growth that will give us more jobs and the prosperity that we have long been seeking. Both in the short and long term I do not see this Budget making a significant contribution to solving the overall prob-  lems facing this country, though it may well help certain sectors—usually the better off—within it. I fear that by this time next year we shall see increasing levels of unemployment, inflation and imports, and the sort of debate that we shall have a year from now will be very different. It was said this afternoon that one of the underlying philosophies of the Budget was freedom of choice. It has always been my understanding that there is not, as it were, a sum of freedom which can be increased or diminished. The truth is that there is more freedom for some and less for others. The real issue is how widely the freedom of choice about which the Government talk will be distributed. It seems to me that giving more freedom of choice to, say, certain council tenants to purchase their council houses will lessen the freedom of choice for those waiting for decent housing or seeking a housing transfer. Similar considerations apply in many other aspects of the freedom about which we are talking. I fear that the freedom that has been increased for some people today will have to be balanced against the lessening of real freedom for other members of our community. When I began talking I mentioned what happened when I once canvassed during an election campaign and I quoted the searing comment that was made about politicians by the person who answered the door. One of my personal aims is to try, as best I can, to lessen the gap of credibility between politicians and the community they serve. I shall do my best to achieve that as regards the people to whom I am accountable in my constituency, both the members of my party and my constituents in Battersea, South.
