gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am one of those Members who represent a new constituency and therefore have the pleasure of being able to mention the work of two previous Members. The borough of Bebington, which is half of my constituency, will probably be best known to hon. Members for its soap and chemical works, particularly those of Unilever, and also for its historic and picturesque village of Port Sunlight. It formed part of the old Bebington constituency which was well represented from 1970 by Mr. Eric Cockeram, who in addition to his constituency work became the Parliamentary Private Secretary to the then Chancellor of the Exchequer. The other half of the constituency, the borough of Ellesmere Port, was represented most ably by yourself, Mr. Speaker, until the General Election. Your work in the House is well known to hon. Members, as is your service to the  nation. What may not be as well known to hon. Members, but will certainly come as no surprise to them, is the excellent and devoted service that you gave in the constituency to the people of Ellesmere Port. For that service, we in Ellesmere Port are proud to have you as one of the freemen of the borough. I have the daunting task of trying to follow that record of service. Hon. Members will be glad to know that in trying to do so I shall not expect to receive any preference in catching your eye. Ellesmere Port is a young and growing town: since 1950, its population has about doubled to 64,000. It is also a highly industrialised town, providing 50,000 jobs for its own residents and for many people from the whole of Merseyside and the ports of Cheshire and North Wales. That industry is modern industry. We have a large paper-manufacturing works, Bowaters; a modern and excellent car plant, Vauxhalls; and at Stanlow, we have one of the largest oil refineries in the country. We are therefore particularly interested in references to oil in the Gracious Speech. One of the urgent tasks of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Energy will be to formulate an integrated energy policy—which I hope will be more relevant to the nation's needs than just cleaning our teeth in the dark. In formulating that policy, I know that he will not forget that there are, in places such as Ellesmere Port, many jobs connected with oil and its chemical by-products. While it is right that some of our new resources of oil and natural gas should be used to help depressed regions, it would be wrong to help the old deprived areas simply by creating new ones. We have in Ellesmere Port the plant and expertise in oil refining. Economically it would be foolish and socially it would be unjustifiable not to continue to use that to the full, wherever our oil comes from in future. Some of us will be pressing those points on my right hon. and hon. Friends. We are today particularly debating education. A matter of some importance is the concern felt in colleges of education, where the majority of our teachers are trained, at many changes that are   taking place there. I have the honour, I think, to be the only hon. Member who is also a member of the Association of Teachers in Colleges and Departments of Education, which represents the people who train our teachers. The policies of the previous Government meant a reduction from the 1971–72 figure of 114,000 teachers in training to between 75,000 and 85,000 by 1981. The reason was not any economic difficulty. Indeed, by the peculiar distortions of language in which the last Government so often indulged, that was part of ""a framework for expansion"". They saw recruitment into schools in 1981 as being only 47,000. In itself, that would not be enough substantially to reduce class sizes. But of that 47,000, it was intended that only 16,000 should come from the three-year and four-year courses and that 16,000 should come from re-entrants to the profession. It is clear that the number of re-entrants depends critically on the number of people initially trained. Of course, if it is to be assumed that there is to be a high number of re-entrants to the profession, it must also be assumed that many have in the first place left the profession. Over a long period, we shall not be able to rely on such a high number of re-entrants. The report of the committee of inquiry into the training of teachers contained many good points. What might be described as ""the aims of James"" are to be welcomed. In particular, I would instance the expansion of in-service training, the improvement of induction into teaching and the achievement of an all-graduate profession. Colleges will also welcome the opportunity to widen their areas of teaching. However, we must seriously question the proposed numbers who are being trained and must ensure that the training of teachers is placed firmly with higher education and not with areas of further education—and certainly not with a third-rate amalgam of the two. Teachers in training colleges have provided valuable service, particularly over the last difficult decade. First, the numbers in training have risen in 10 years from 40,000 to nearly 120,000. Second, teacher training has been extended to three years. Third, many new courses  have been introduced, particularly the B.Ed. course. These changes show the work and strains of staffs in colleges of education and they are now about to go through another major reorganisation. Many will welcome many aspects of the reorganisation, but they will not welcome being reorganised out of a job or out of promotion prospects. Nor will the country welcome reorganisation which leaves us short of teachers and leaves our children in over-sized classes. Staffs of colleges of education have provided a good service for this country for many years, giving a higher education to thousands at a smaller cost than any other sector. The last Government seemed too ready to run them down. I hope that the new Government will reconsider that policy and assure them of the viable future that their importance warrants.
