gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel that I should preface my remarks by mentioning to the House that I am a director of companies which in the normal conduct of their business engage in Sunday trading. It is a firmly established tradition of the House to show indulgence to an hon. Member who rises to address it for the first time and to encourage him wherever possible. I am sure that this characteristically generous attitude of the House has a lasting influence on the hon. Member's own conduct in the Chamber. In recognition of this reception, he is expected not to plunge too deeply into the stimulating streams of invigorating controversy. This is not as easy as it might appear, for what may seem to one hon. Member to be a strictly straightforward assertion might be viewed very differently by others, particularly by hon. Members opposite. I am sure of an uncontroversial reception of my first remarks when I say that the constituency of Morecambe and Lonsdale, which I have the honour to represent, is one where those whose spirits are nourished by beauty can truly feast themselves. The ever-changing patterns of light and shade over the sands and shores of Morecambe Bay and the glowing tranquillity of the vales and lakes of north Lancashire and the kindness of the climate all combine to attract people, in their thousands, who are in search of rest and recreation and who make the holiday industry one of the main sources of employment and reward for my constituents. The holiday industry makes a major contribution to the economic strength of this country. We are used to debating in the House ways of encouraging and stimu-  Lating our export industries. I believe that our holiday industry should be looked upon as a major saver of foreign currencies as well as an industry which earns foreign currencies from tourists visiting these shores from overseas. European Governments cosset and encourage their holiday industries in a way which has no parallel in this country. The holiday industry of this country perhaps feels that its rôle in the economy of the country is not sufficiently appreciated. I notice that there are no little ""Neddys"" proposed for our holiday industry. However, should it fail to continue to attract in their millions the people who now choose to take their holidays here, the adverse effect on our balance of payments would be substantial, mounting and permanent. I hope, therefore, that the Government will look favourably on the recommendations dealing with holiday resorts. In saying that, I should also like to make it clear that I respect the attitude of those to whom repeated reference is made in the Report; people who feel that the individual character of Sunday should be preserved as a day set apart from the other working days, a day for corporate worship and for rest, recreation and family pursuits. One of the most gratifying aspects of the increase in living standards and the growth of leisure which has taken place in recent years is that it has opened the door to a whole new range of activities which families can undertake together. Today it is becoming much rarer for all the members of a family to work in one place of employment. They often work at different hours of the day and it is natural, therefore, that they should wish to take their rest and recreation together at the weekend in surroundings removed from the stress and strain of their daily work. I hope that the Government will bear this in mind when they consider those recommendations which affect the possibility of catering for the needs of families away from home at the weekend. I particularly wish to refer, in this connection, to one aspect of the present situation which, in my view, should be altered. The House will probably be aware that it is possible for local authorities in holiday resorts to make an order as a result   of which shops can sell a wider range of goods than those which are normally able to be sold on Sunday, but that this is restricted to a maximum of 18 Sundays in any one year. This legislation was enacted in the immediate post-war period when the holiday season was shorter, when the ownership of private transport was restricted to a much narrower range of the community and when the economic benefits of a staggered holiday season had not become so apparent. Encouraged, or, perhaps I should say, misled by the growth of the holiday season and by the prolonged good weather, certain traders in my constituency were moved to disregard this maximum, arid the general reluctance of the local authority to institute a prosecution was exceeded only by the reluctance of the traders to pay the fines subsequently imposed on them. The continuation of this situation cannot be in anyone's interest and, if it is not possible to introduce legislation before this summer, I ask the Home Secretary if some guidance could be given pending the introduction of legislation to the effect that this type of prosecution should not be instituted. There is a much wider and more fundamental reason why I hope that in considering the Report the Government will take the opportunity to restrict as far as possible any of those restraints which are not enjoying general public support. We live in an increasingly complex and interdependent society. It is necessary for us to impose restraints on individual freedom of choice by way of public authorities. We in this House are particularly familiar with these: planning controls, traffic regulations, holiday Acts, smoke abatement, the discharge of parental responsibility towards families are but a few. In all these spheres official edicts impinge on the free choice of the individual. It is extremely important, if we are not to diminish or destroy the respect of the public for those servants of the public who are called upon to enforce these regulations, that we should keep in operation only those restraints which have general public support. This is particularly important now to our police forces, which need the full support of public opinion. Any reaction against these regu lations, even when it stems from spheres for which they are not themselves directly responsible, always reacts on our police forces. I hope, therefore, that the Government, when they consider the recommendations, will bear in mind the desirability of limiting the restraints on individual choice if our well-ordered society is to continue to have the general support of the public. I do not believe that the recommendations in the Report are revolutionary or even evolutionary. They attempt to rationalise the existing situation in a framework of legislation which is logical and easily understood and which will be widely accepted. The Committee has put forward its recommendations in a reasoned manner and, I believe, has paid due regard to the views of all of those who submitted evidence. I do not think that the recommendations, if implemented, would in any way have undesired effects on the general attitude to Sunday observance. I hope, therefore, that when the Government have heard and considered the views of the House they will not hesitate to introduce legislation. I thank hon. Members for the indulgence they have shown to me on this the first occasion I have addressed the House.
