gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hesitate to intervene in this Debate, but I should like to point out to the hon. Member for Mid-Bedfordshire (Mr. Lennox-Boyd) that it is impossible to reconcile the two points which he put forward, namely, that, on the one hand, local authorities are having powers and duties taken from them which are advantageous and important, and, on the other, that the local authorities are being hampered by the central authority in their demands for expansion of their work. The hon. Gentleman went on to say that he did not mind additional taxation falling upon the country by reason of the actions of the Boundary Commission, but he strongly objected to such additional taxation falling upon the nation because local authorities made some recommendations. I am not complaining, but some hon. Gentlemen opposite have been very vociferous recently in their attempts to make the country believe that all the powers and duties of local authorities are being taken from them by this Government. What the Motion attempts to do is to make it easier for local authorities to render services to the people in their districts. The Motion deals with Bills constituting a new county borough, altering the boundaries of the area of the local authority or authorising expenditure by a local authority. Is there not sufficient protection for the House in regard to such Bills without a Money Resolution, because the Committee giving consideration to such a Bill may make such alterations as are considered desirable? The point I want to make is that, at every stage, this House has control of the expenditure of local authorities. Let us take into consideration the possibility   of a local authority going forward with a small expansion scheme and promoting a Bill of this kind. Even if this power is given to them to cover their expenditure such as borrowing money in order to purchase land, putting out tenders for sewering that land, or asking for tenders for buildings that may be erected on that land, at every stage they must refer to the central authority. First they must ask for the powers to borrow, for authority to seek tenders and so on, and yet it is suggested that this power—[Interruption.] I do not know what the mutterings coming from the hon. Gentleman opposite are all about, but I wish that someone would feed him. The House is fully protected at every stage, and while I agree with the hon. Member for Mid-Bedfordshire that there may be cases where such expansion may have the effect of altering the equalisation grant, it is not invariably the case. It may not always alter that grant, but may make it necessary for the central Government to provide more money for the local authority. Because some indication was given to the local authorities at the time the work of the Boundary Commission was rendered null and void that this procedure would be available to them for vital, necessary and urgent expansion. I believe it would be betraying the local authorities to abolish it now, unless we make it easier for them to approach this House in the circumstances which I have described. Therefore, I hope that the House will agree to the Motion.
