gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with due deference that I address this House for the first time, and I hope that any faults which I may commit will be laid at the feet of my inexperience. The hon. Member for Rugby (Mr. W. J. Brown) described the King's Speech in glowing terms, and it represents a very heavy programme of reconstruction and much diligent Parliamentary work to enable it to be carried through. If I were to make any comment at all, it would be in particular reference to social insurance. Though a young man, my plea this afternoon would be for another generation entirely. I refer to the old age pensioners. It may be said that the present old age pensioner will be catered for in the new Bill in connection with social insurance, out Bills like that and the Housing Bill will take time, and, whilst that time is being taken up, many of the old age pensioners who to-day are living on a mere existence level will probably have ceased to enjoy life on this earth. I would ask the Government to do something immediately for the old age pensioners of the moment. I do not know, but some time, possibly, I shall learn whether or not the present position of the old age pensioner could be dealt with by regulation, but, if that were so, it seems to me that the first step ought at least to be to double the old age pension and   abolish the means test. All hon. Members, in their constituencies when fighting the election, must have left, met and spoken to many of the old people who are trying to manage on their small pension. They, more than anyone else, have been hit most hardly by the rise in the cost of living and by the rise in the prices of those little essentials that make for happiness. We do not include the cost of the working man's beer or the old age pensioner's pipe of tobacco in the cost of living, and yet it represents the difference between misery and happiness for those old people. It seems to me that something ought to be done immediately to alleviate that. The means test has been pernicious, and one has cases, as most hon. Members must have, where grandchildren reach the age of 15 and begin to work only to have a portion of their income added to the family income, with the result that they are contributing something like 2s. 6d. a week to their grandfather's existence. In such a case, you merely make the old man very conscious indeed of the downfall of his pride, and of the fact that, having reared a family, and that family having reared another, he is now thrown on the help of his grandchildren, friends and other relatives. It is a state of affairs that ought to be altered immediately. In this House, in the Session immediately ahead, we shall be doing a work which will perhaps not see its full realisation for some years ahead. We are laying the foundations for building upon a plan, and we are really building for the generation which perhaps I represent, and for the younger generation and those who will come after. Those are the people who will get most out of the work we propose to do. I want us not only to proceed with the work of building up the future, and building up a better world for the young people, but also to make this world a better place for the old people and enable them to spend the eventide of their days in something like decency and happiness. I said that perhaps it was strange that I, at my age, should refer to old age pensioners. I do so because I feel so deeply for them. I have met those men and women whose very pride alone prevents them from asking for the additional allowances that they might obtain. I  want our old people to retain their pride and dignity. While we know that there is a tremendous labour problem in this country, here is an admirable opportunity for releasing the large army of Paul Prys and Sally Snoopers, who are the investigators of the Department and who spend their time going into the homes of the old people to find out precisely how much is coming in. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) yesterday drew a very graphic picture of the homes of the people on the Continent, and showed how, as they sat round their cottage fires, families were very disturbed when a knock came at the door which might mean that some secret police or Gestapo agent was there in order to take one of them away. There are plenty of cottage homes in this country where the knock on the door which heralds the investigator is met with the same dread. If we cannot at this stage do something to deal with the larger point to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, we have it in our power, immediately and quickly, at least to release this great army of people who do this work and who cause this annoyance and who sink the pride of our old people. That is a job that we can do. I hope that the Government will take the opportunity and not wait for the full implementation of the Social Insurance Bill, but will, by Regulation, bring some life and happiness into the hearts and minds of our old people, and give them an opportunity of having a pension without this pernicious means test.
