gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to try to make a small contribution to this Debate on the proposals of my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the first place, I wish to express my admiration of the masterly talent shown by the Chancellor when he unfolded to us the economic and financial position of our country. I found his speech one of absorbing interest; he held my attention throughout the whole of the two and a quarter hours. I am sure that all hon. Members were very pleased to hear 1948 described as a year of great achievement. Having been an eye witness, I can state with pride that the people of the heavy woollen district of Yorkshire contributed their full share to this splendid achievement. When the economic situation had been explained, and when we knew the difficulties ahead—particularly the dollar problem—the Chancellor then gave his Budget proposals. This Budget reminds me of a mixture containing all the essential ingredients for the recovery of the patient, but lacking in carminatives to make it palatable. I realise that a limit has to be fixed for food subsidies, already costing over £400 million a year, and that this causes a slight increase in the price of some of our rationed foods. I realise also that the tax yield from beer has fallen, and that the penny off the pint is suggested in the hope of gathering more tax. I clearly understand that these two measures are economically unrelated; but I am sure that an unfortunate misunderstanding has arisen in the country. During last weekend I was in my constituency in Yorkshire, where I heard it said: ""Mum has to pay more for the family's food, but dad is getting his beer cheaper."" It is only  natural that mum should not be pleased. To have offended the women is, to say the least, unfortunate. That brings me to another matter upon which I should like to touch. I very much regret that the Chancellor could not see his way to making a reduction in Purchase Tax. In Batley and Morley—as indeed in many other parts of the country—hundreds of women turned out to work in response to the appeal made by my right hon. Friend the Minister of Labour. Some reduction in Purchase Tax would have helped women, and would, I think, have been regarded as a mark of appreciation for the valuable work done by thousands of women throughout the country. My final point of criticism is because of my concern for the old-age pensioners. I am aware that several hon. Members have already referred to this matter, but I should like to mention it also, because I regard it as of such importance. Today the old-age pension stands at 26s. a week. If we were in a period of greater national prosperity I, for one, would press for an increase up to 40s. or two guineas a week. It may be said that the additional cost of food amounts to only a few coppers a week; but when a person has to try to make ends meet on a very small income every penny counts. Indeed, every halfpenny counts, and I am sure that even the halfpenny on a box of matches will be felt by old-age pensioners. When the Duty on tobacco was last raised the Chancellor kindly, and rightly, allowed old-age pensioners to enjoy their smokes at the previous price. I should like to suggest that a similar arrangement now be made for the old-age pensioners' food. I do not know if this is financially and administratively possible, but I should be grateful to my right hon. and learned Friend if he would consider the idea. This Budget has been described as one of harsh realism. With that I agree. It is also a monument of courage and integrity. There are some aspects of it which displease me, but it is based on sound economic and financial principles, and therefore I must support it. I should be grateful, however, if my right hon. and learned Friend would look into my suggestion for helping the old-age pensioners, to see if that is a practical proposition.
