gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I think that it was Aristotle who held it to be the essence of probability that some improbable things will happen. He might perhaps have said something also on the need for legislative assemblies to show restraint and indulgence towards maiden speakers. His remark about the essence of probability was certainly true of the election from which I have emerged as the first Labour Member for the Wythenshawe constituency of my native Manchester. In addition to a superb fellowship of natural supporters, I had the help of some extremely improbable visiting speakers. The Committee might think it churlish, even ungenerous, were I not to acknowledge the efforts of these improbable visiting speakers on my behalf. First, I must acknowledge the support which accrued to me from the efforts of the then Prime Minister, the right hon. Member for Kinross and West Perthshire (Sir Alec Douglas-Home). He spent half an hour or so making his speech in Wythenshawe, and there were some who thought that he might be encouraged to stay a little longer. It was even argued, perhaps a little scurrilously, that he had spent upwards of an hour in other marginal seats and that he was selling us a little short. But we had the advantage of a two-hour visit from the then Leader of the House, the right hon. and learned Member for Wirral (Mr. Selwyn Lloyd), and I am most deeply grateful for his splendid contribution to my success. Unfortunately, we did not have the services of the Secretary of State for Education and Science, the right hon. and learned Member for St. Marylebone (Mr. Hogg), but we were touched by the quiet, persuasive work he was doing on our behalf in well-reported speeches made elsewhere in the country. Again, it would be uncharitable not to mention the generous support we received from the right hon. and learned Gentleman's calm, reasonable and mature appeals to the   electorate. In my view, he is the sort of speaker who not only encourages people to vote Labour. He seems to have the further knack of making them life-long Socialists at the same time. One of the more endearing remarks made in Wythenshawe by the right hon. Member for Kinross and West Perthshire was that its people lived in surroundings very much like those of his home place. Hon. Members who know Manchester will readily appreciate the discernment of this remark and how very much I owe to the right hon. Gentleman's efforts on my behalf. Wythenshawe is a place most of whose people earn their living as industrial workers or as employees of national and local public services. They are a very lively, warmhearted, sociable, hardworking and intensely practical community of people. I am deeply proud to be their representative, as I know that my unfortunate predecessor was proud to have been their representative, in what is still the most illustrious of legislative assemblies. One of the Wythenshawe community's main concerns is to see that our industry and our economy are energised, modernised and radically expanded. They know that economic expansion requires an incomes policy which is, and is seen to be, both fair and socially just. They will have been heartened that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has shown the courage and the will to tackle the grave economic problems with which he was faced on assuming office. They will be indebted to him, also, for the feeling of social justice which informed the speech with which he opened this debate. In particular, they will rejoice at the improved benefits envisaged for elderly people, widows and war pensioners. In the months ahead, they will be looking to the Treasury Bench for stern proposals to deal with the scandal of land profiteering and the effects of high interest rates on the standard of living of owner-occupiers and council-house tenants alike. They will want to see some early initiatives towards disarmament and a reduction in arms expenditure. They will also want to see drastic action to curb the exploitation of consumers and some improvement in the housing prospects of the many young people for whom matrimony is followed by years of living with ""in-laws"". Most of the people of my constituency know that in the Britain of past years the highest rewards have not gone to those who have worked the hardest or whose work has been of most value to the community. Those on fixed incomes have barely kept pace with an ever-increasing cost of living. Many have fallen utterly behind, including so many super-annuitants of the public service. They have been expected to tolerate the intolerable. Such features of the policy pursued in recent years are the central cause of our failure to achieve the twin objectives of economic expansion and a socially fair incomes policy. Governments are not entitled to hope for a dynamic economy unless they have shown that they can be trusted to share the rewards of economic growth equitably. As one who has for some years held a position of responsibility in the public service, I trust that in their talks on incomes policy with representatives of industry my right hon. Friends will take into account not only the views of what one may call the federal leaders of industry, but also those of the more direct practitioners, trade union officers and managements alike, who do the day-to-day work of salary and wage negotiation. In my view, they could tell us far more about the causes, if not the effects, of what has come to be called the ""wage drift"" than could more senior people on both sides of industry. Secondly, I should like it to be emphasised that when employers decline to bargain adequately with trade union officers but agree to negotiate only when, and sometimes after, they are faced with strong industrial action, they are actively discrediting the trade union movement and will be exposed as disruptive elements in our industrial life. Thirdly, I hope that we shall have an incomes policy which attempts to cure the disease of overtime. By this I mean that I should like us to create an industrial society in which it will no longer be necessary to work long hours of overtime to earn a living wage. Work-people in my constituency are today as apprehensive of losing their overtime as they used to be, or their fathers used to be, of losing their jobs. He was an acute observer of our industrial life who remarked that overtime is no longer the jam: it has become   the bread of life for millions of working people in Britain today. And an industrial society based on overtime becomes a tired, ineffective and, if I may say so, an ugly and demoralised society. I should like to think that hon. Members on both sides of the Committee will give a lead to our fellows in industry by showing that they can conduct the business of the House of Commons efficiently and well without the incidence of unnecessarily long hours of overtime. I look forward to a happy coincidence of precept and practice in our approach to this subject. Finally, one of my main impressions of the House so far was when, on the election of Mr. Speaker, it was said that what unites the House is the love which all right hon. and hon. Members have for it as an institution. Perhaps I may be permitted to say, as a new Member, that I bring with me an enduring respect for a House of Commons which has been an instrument of revolutionary social change and which has provided the means for such change to be carried through peacefully. As a life-long democratic Socialist and co-operator, I feel that we are honoured to be here at a time when I believe that we shall see this House acting according to its finest traditions.
