gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, crave the indulgence of the House. With regard to the Gracious Speech the main thing to me—and I said a lot about it in the Election campaign, as did many others —is the steps to be taken to maintain full employment. I would go so far as to say that we did not say enough about it, in spite of the fact that the Opposition said that we made an over-play about it. For example, the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon said we made an unworthy reference to the phrases and statements used about ""empty bellies."" I am one of those mild kind of people who think that the average hon. Member opposite would not like to see circumstances such as that. But one of the accusations of the Opposition about the nationalised industries is, that we have taken the human content out of them. We have put it in, in many instances. It is to the credit of this Government that they have been able to persuade men to go into the pits willingly to help to solve one of our major problems. I speak with some experience. I happen to be a magistrate in my home town of Bolton. Sometimes during the war I had the unfortunate task of sending men to prison because they refused to be directed to the mines. Whenever these men came before us we always used our best endeavours and put to them the appeal made by the country, suggesting that the country was the best judge of where they could most usefully serve. On one occasion I had an awkward obstinate young man. I could not get him to agree to anything, not even on the high call of patriotism. I asked his father into the witness box and said, ""Cannot you get your boy to go into the mines?"" The father replied that as a collier he had  vowed that no boy of his would ever go into the pit to work under the same conditions under which he had worked. The very fact that we have removed that threat from the minds of the people is a positive tribute, and the result is shown not only in the increased output of coal but in the increased stature of the men. I have found from experience in a typical Lancashire town which suffered the blight of the inter-war years that the spirit among the men has changed. Men have said to me that it was not only taking home the pay packet that mattered, but that now they feel they count in the community. They walk about with heads held high. They are no longer drudges or drones—somebody to be pointed out. Their stature as men has been increased. I remember an argument used yesterday by the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden). He made play with the fact that in certain countries prices were tending to fall. There is always a cause and effect. This question also can be linked with that of full employment. It is marvellous to have achieved 98 per cent. employment in spite of all that is said about conditions being propitious for the Government and all winds blowing our way. It is strange that this is the only country in the world where things have blown entirely in the way of the Government and that Marshall Aid and all the rest of it has not done the same anywhere else. I remind the right hon. Gentleman that falling prices can be attributed to increasing unemployment. It is a well-known economic fact that if a man is unemployed he will make smaller demands on consumer goods. The B.B.C. told us three weeks ago that the unemployment figure in America had risen from 3,500,000 to 4,500,000. That kind of thing contributes towards falling prices because of decreased demands. Having said what I have said about full employment, and subscribing as I do to the view that there is an acute need for houses, I say that I am more concerned with the determination of this Government to do everything possible to further the prestige, the power and the achievements of United Nations. I, like many others, have seen Plymouth razed to the ground. Not long ago I saw Coventry for the first time and I wondered what Coventry could have been like five years ago. I think of full employment and of   the real and complete solution of our housing difficulties. I think of health services better than they are today and approaching the perfection limit. Then I think of the possibility of all being shattered because of the state of the world. That is the trouble. As a visitor to the House of Commons just before the Second World War, I heard the right hon. Gentleman who was then the Member for Epping deliver a slashing attack on the new Minister for the Co-ordination of Defence. I got a feeling of impending disaster threatening a seemingly impotent House which could not see its way to do anything about it. History has a trick of repeating itself. I came back from the First World War, as many other Members of this House must have done, a disabled man having been a prisoner of war. I supported the League of Nations—an anaemic thing largely due to Governments in various parts of the world who never put their real belief or backing into it. I was fortified by the feeling that men will remember, a feeling that expressed itself in the belief that there would not be any more war. I believed that we had had our lesson about the futility, the craziness and destruction of war. Ten million men lost their lives in that war, 10 million of the cream of the manhood of the world. What alarmed me about the Second World War, when I had passed the combatant stage and when I was up to my neck in Civil Defence, was not the feeling that war would not come again, but the inevitability of it coming again, the feeling of waiting for the third conflict to break upon the world. I know the misery caused by the lack of houses and I remember seeing the tube stations filled with women with children at their breasts; but if we fall down on housing, if the social services are suspended, but the world is saved by a Government which makes the United Nations a living and powerful organisation, then this country again will have saved not only herself by her exertions but, please God, the world by her example.
