gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address the House for the first time, and, as is customary, I ask the indulgence of right hon. and hon. Members. I am very conscious of being one of a rapidly diminishing band of hon. Members who, with the passage of the past four months, have probably now acquired something of a scarcity value. I do not know whether my hon. Friend the Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Maude) realised how prophetic he was when he said that the Scots would have plenty of time to blow their bagpipes. I admit not only to being a Scot, but to playing the bagpipes, though I shall reserve the playing of the pipes for another occasion. First, pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir Colin Thornton-Kemsley, who, almost a year ago, celebrated his twenty-fifth anniversary as a Member of the House. I know how respected he was both here and in the constituency. I owe him a particular debt of gratitude for his kindness and guidance to me, qualities which, I am sure, can be testified to also by hon. Members who knew him when he was a Member. Having listened to several maiden speeches. I understand that it is customary to extol the virtues and beauties of one's constituency. However, I shall confine myself to saying that my constituency is no less virtuous and no less beautiful than any of those of which we have heard. Listening to what is sometimes said, I think that the British Travel and Holidays Association, or, perhaps, the Scottish Tourist Board, could make more use of hon. Members in boosting the holiday trade and tourist traffic in their areas. North Angus and Mearns has problems very similar to those in more remote constituencies. Fortunately, we do not suffer the problem of unemployment, because people in my constituency have initiative and enterprise to move elsewhere, but this migration presents one of our bigest problems. Because we have a low unemployment rate as a result of migration, most of the constituency fails to qualify for assistance under the Local Employment Act, which has been of such benefit elsewhere and has changed the face of Central Scotland. The benefit which comes under the Local Employment Act is only one benefit which can help areas such as mine. Many other benefits are equally important, and one of these is good communications. In the list of good communications, good air services rank very high indeed. This was most forcibly stated in the Toothill Report on the Scottish Economy, a few years ago. That Report pointed out that, if areas such as Scotland were to have their share of industries based on technology and science—something which we had missed in previous decades—it was essential that those working in such industries should have easy access to other centres of industry in order to keep information up to date and to maintain an exchange of ideas. In a country such as Scotland, where we rely so much on sending away or exporting what we produce, it is most important that firms should be able to establish a good market relationship with the areas which they serve. In view of the distance we are from the main consuming centres, it is essential that we have good air services. It has been said that, on the one hand, we must have ease and speed of personal travel if, on the other, we are to have jobs and development. One of the Toothill Report's conclusions was that, in areas such as Scotland, communications must be not of a standard similar to that in other areas, but of a higher standard. Two of the most important factors for us in relation to air travel are that we should have a good frequency of flights and a ready availability of seats. I pay tribute to what B.E.A. has done in Scotland not only on the trunk routes, but in opening up services within Scotland. There have been references to this already in the debate. Nevertheless, deficiencies are developing now. One of our greatest weaknesses is that, while we have, at Prestwick, an international airport with, perhaps, the best record for weather of anywhere in Europe, there are no internal links with that airport. In Scotland now, there are about 70 firms of American origin, and for these firms there must be a good and easy link with America, yet, unless a firm happens to be based in the West of Scotland, near Prestwick, it is easier to travel to America via London than it is from our own airport at Prestwick. This, I suggest, is a very roundabout way by which to go. Another of our deficiencies is in our links with Europe. Scotland's export trade with Europe is running at present at a value of £130 million a year, almost one-third of our total exports, yet in our links with Europe we have only four flights a week with Holland, three with West Berlin and seven with Denmark. Moreover, all these flights are operated by foreign airlines, and they are at the tail end of transatlantic services, with consequent loss of punctuality. We have, it is true, one direct flight via Birmingham with France every day from Glasgow, but with important industrial countries in Europe such as Belgium, West   Germany and Switzerland, and other countries as well, there are no direct service links whatever. One of the consequences is that anyone travelling from Scotland to the Continent has usually to go through London Airport. The congestion of goods in the London docks today is common knowledge, but we are witnessing an equal congestion of passengers at London Airport. If more direct links with the Continent were developed, perhaps from Scotland via the Midlands, not only would this be an enormous service to Scotland, but it would help relieve congestion at London Airport. Another vital need is for adequate feeder services within Scotland. I cite the example of Dundee, a city which, with enterprise, has developed an airstrip. We have air charter firms which are prepared, also with enterprise, to operate flights from this airstrip. But an airstrip and charter flights are no substitute for a proper air service and a proper airport, and I suggest that, with the development of the Tay Road Bridge, consideration should be given to the use of Leuchars Airport for a service to Dundee. Until Dundee has this, not only the city itself but the surrounding counties of Perth-shire and Angus will be denied one of the essential prerequisites if we are to have the right degree of industrial development. As has been mentioned in the debate, a further blow has been struck at air services to Scotland in the withdrawal of independent airlines from the trunk routes. The reasons for this decision have already been examined. But in the granting of a virtual monopoly to B.E.A., we are losing in Scotland a spur which we previously had to good service and punctuality. Anyone who has used these services regularly over recent years appreciates the improvements which have taken place. I should like to look at the further implications of this withdrawal of the independent services to Scotland. One of the most serious of these implications is that it will destroy the prospects of getting more feeder services, which Scotland needs so much. Unless an operator has the opportunity of working a good trunk route, it is most unlikely that he  will ever consider running a feeder service. The independent airlines have already shown their enterprise—Cambrian Airlines is one example—in how feeder services can be operated efficiently and so as to provide a good service to those living in a particular area. I believe that in this action which the Minister of Aviation has taken we have turned the clock back on the hope of getting better feeder services within Scotland. May I also mention the Highlands and Islands service? I believe that independent airlines should be given opportunity of working these services. A great deal is made of the loss at which these services run. It is worth while getting the loss into perspective, particularly if it is related to the services which are provided. It is very little higher than that incurred in the services, for example, to the Scilly Isles. We must look at the loss on these services not just as an economic loss, but as a social cost—a cost which the community should be prepared to bear if we are to continue to support life in those areas. If we are prepared to accept that these services are worthy of a subsidy, there is a case to be argued for putting them out to tender to different airlines, including the independent airlines, and for saying that whichever company is prepared to offer this service at the lowest subsidy, should be given the opportunity to run the air service. In this way not only would independent airlines have the opportunity to run good services but it would also save money. It is interesting to note that the cost per seat-mile of B.E.A. at present is 4·1d., whereas the cost per seat-mile for British Eagle, the airline which was competing on the Scottish service, is 2·63d. I believe that, given the opportunity on trunk routes, independent airlines would be able to improve services not only within Scotland, but from Scotland to Europe and from Scotland to America. This could be vital to the future economic prosperity of Scotland. I thank hon. Members for their patience and forbearance.
