gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me the opportunity to catch your eye so early in my first Parliament, though I am sorry that it should have come in circumstances of some controversy. I wish at the outset to pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir John Foster, who served both the constituency of Northwich and this House for over 28 years. All who knew him will, I am sure, wish him well in his retirement from the House of Commons. His expertise in matters of international law is known throughout the world. His authoritative and judicial mind is known to all former members of the House, and the lucidity of exposition which he brought to bear on matters of great complexity will, I know, be greatly missed in our future deliberations. Less well known, perhaps, is the tenacity and single-mindedness with which Sir John Foster sought to remedy injustice and unfairness wherever he found it. I hope that, in time, I may earn some measure of the respect and affection which he inspired. The constituency of Northwich, which has over 53,000 electors, mirrors in many ways the interests of the country as a whole. A substantial proportion of its area is covered by farm land, mainly  dairy farming land. Many of my constituents will welcome the commitment in the Gracious Speech to encourage the maximium economic production of food by the farming industry. Together with my right hon. and hon. Friends who represent neighbouring Cheshire constituencies, I shall be most vigilant in seeing that that encouragement takes a financial as well as a verbal form. In particular, I hope that the Government will complete the urgent review of the position of pig farmers which was put in hand by the previous Government. Elsewhere in Northwich there is to be found a great variety of industries, and more, I hope, will come. The town of Northwich, however, is famous above all for salt. Salt works there were first recorded in the Domesday Book, but there is evidence of salt making in Northwich long before that. A century ago last year, Joseph Brunner and Ludwig Mond established the firm of Brunner Mond and Company, which in 1926 became ICI. They led the way in many things, not the least of which was the responsibility which they assumed for the well being of the firm's employees, a tradition which has been continued and built on. Before commenting on the Gracious Speech, may I, in parenthesis, take the opportunity to associate myself strongly with the suggestion made earlier in connection with the crash of the Turkish DC10 airliner by my hon. Friend the Member for Henley (Mr. Heseltine) that arrangements be made for the collation of information for the relatives of those lost in air disasters. Only right hon. and hon. Members with direct experience of these matters will know of the additional distress occasioned by the delay in official communication with the bereaved, and I trust that the Secretary of State for Trade, the right hon. Member for Stepney and Poplar (Mr. Shore), will soon be able to tell us what permanent standby arrangements he has caused to be made for the future. I give a particular welcome to that section of the Gracious Speech which affirms the Government's intention to work for the strengthening of international institutions, to increase the provision of aid to developing countries, to establish   a more liberal pattern of world trade and to co-operate with oil-consuming and producing countries in seeking to establish arrangements in the interest of all. The intentions and efforts of successive Governments in these areas in the past have not been viewed at home with the degree of urgency they now demand. A radical shift which is created in the economic relationships between various parts of the world makes the stability of international co-operation a matter of vital importance to everyone in the country. I hope that the Government will keep the House regularly informed in the most specific terms of the progress which is made in securing co-operation. My right hon. Friend the Member for Lowestoft (Mr. Prior) said that the ability of the world to reproduce population is now much greater than the ability to grow extra ford. Flaying lived for the greater part of the last three years in South-East Asia I can testify to the truth of his words. The problem of the world's increasing population is getting worse. Four babies are born every second and every two weeks the equivalent of a new Chicago is born on to the face of the earth. Each year the problem worsens and each year it becomes that much harder to solve. Each year the ability to solve it poses more of a threat for the future of international understanding. The population explosion will not be stopped by birth control programmes. Over 90 per cent. of the countries of the world already have such programmes and they only scratch at the surface. Only a fraction of the population can be reached by them. The only thing which will halt the population explosion is increased prosperity in the developing countries. Only when people have some kind of security in old age, whether it be national insurance or whatever, will they be prepared to forgo the large families which they regard as a prerequisite of economic survival. For developing countries to become prosperous, foreign investment is needed in large quantities. It will not be forthcoming by accident but will require all our patience, determination and ingenuity. The unprecedented recycling of wealth which we are witnessing presents for the world at once a threat and an opportunity. If we are narrow and selfish in  our outlook there will be a world recession. If we retain a determined spirit of co-operation, not only will the industrial nations of the world prosper but through the workings of the international credit agencies the developing countries will receive the funds for investment which it is necessary, both for those countries and for the world in general, that they should receive. It cannot be denied that our own aid programme would be more popular at home were we to refrain front giving money to countries which patently do not need it. It may be that we are already too late and that the world population explosion can no longer be influenced by human agency. Whether or not international co-operation triumphs over short-sighted nationalism rests in the hands of a small number of people. I am sure that the Government can rely on the good will of this House if it acts on those parts of the Gracious Speech to which I have referred as matters of the greatest urgency.
