gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is proper that my first words in this Committee should be by way of tribute to my predecessor That is one tradition that I do not want to overthrow. Dame Patricia Hornsby-Smith is a most redoubtable lady and although I cannot speak of her standing in the House of Commons I know that she is highly regarded in the constituency, partly because of her zeal in attending to the problems of constituents and partly because of her assiduity in being present on many public occasions. Indeed, Dame Patricia was able to be present in two places at once. Only last weekend I was invited to be present at two places at once and could not do so. This morning I received a reproachful letter from a young lady to say that Dame Patricia had always attended the function that I was unable to attend. If I am able to emulate her zeal I shall think myself very fortunate. I have listened with envy and some admiration to other hon. Members making their maiden speeches and rehearsing the assets and qualities of their constituencies. The only natural asset that Chislehurst can boast of is the famous Chislehurst Caves, which have been visited, so it is said, by most of the famous characters in English history, including Julius Caesar and Shakespeare. One can tell that they have been there—they have written their names on the walls, or, at any rate, drawn their   pictures. Another famous inhabitant of Chislehurst was the Empress of France, whose stay there is rather curiously commemorated in the name ""Imperial"" telephone exchange. Chislehurst is mainly famous, however, not for its assets, but for its people, and I am very proud to stand here to represent them, because I think that they are very shrewd people. What they are looking for from the present Government, as I know well, is not just words but practical deeds to improve the country's economy. I want to mention one item in the Budget which is a practical deed for improving the economy of the country and which is the fruition of something promised before—the replacement of investment allowances by investment grants. This will be a most practical step forward. Before coming to the House of Commons, I spent my time examining balance sheets. I did this all day and every day, except on those occasions when I had to go out to discuss the balance sheets with the directors or accountants who had prepared them. This led me firmly to the conclusion that the merit of a company cannot always be deduced from a study of its profit and loss account. I should like the Committee to be quite clear what I am arguing when I say that. I know that it is often said, particularly by my hon. Friends, that in assessing the merits of a company one should also take into account its productive capacity, the fact that it gives employment in a depressed area, or something like that. There is force in those arguments, but I am talking not about that, but solely about money, and I say that the merit of a company cannot necessarily be told from a study of its profit and loss account. In recent years, there has been considerable development of rental, of companies supplying goods on rental, notably television sets. Perhaps it is not so widely known as it might be that many companies are engaged in supplying earth-moving equipment, office machinery, or machine tools, on a rental basis. This is very satisfactory for the users of this equipment, because they are thus able to carry on their businesses without capital outlay. However, it has not been altogether  satisfactory in the past for the firms actually supplying the equipment. Not infrequently, the period taken under the rental contract to recover the capital cost of the goods has been longer than the period taken under the taxation regulations to write off the capital cost. Therefore, in the early years of such a contract a company is bound to show a loss, at any rate on paper. It is not a real loss. In fact, the company may be doing very well, but on paper there is a significant loss. This is due to a quirk in our accounting system which is well adapted to recording transactions of sales and purchases, but not so well adapted to recording rental transactions. That is why I say that the financial merit of a company is not made clear from a study of its profit and loss account. On the old basis of investment allowances, a company had to make a profit on paper before it could obtain the benefit of the allowances. I can think of many firms which built up an enormous number of allowances which were no good to them because, on paper, the companies were not making sufficient profits to take full benefit of the allowances. The system of replacing allowances by grants will give particular help to those firms which merit it. I think, in particular, of a firm which is not very old—it was formed only six or seven years ago—which makes and rents a product. Having established a sound home basis, it has now branched out into the export market and has contracts in the Benelux countries and has recently succeeded in negotiating its first contract in the dollar market of the United States. This is exactly the kind of firm which ought to have some benefit. Under the old system of investment allowances it was getting very little profit at all, because although it had a claim to these allowances on paper it was not earning sufficient profits to set off against the allowances. Thus the benefit was theoretical rather than real. A proposal to replace investment allowances by grants will be of particular help to this kind of firm and others like it—firms which deserve well of the economy. My only regret is that the Chancellor of the Exchequer may be taking away with one hand what he is   giving with the other. Firms like those I have mentioned will benefit from the introduction of the investment grants, but I deeply fear that they will be severely hit by the introduction of the Selective Employment Tax. I have been studying the White Paper, and it seems that this kind of firm is one which will not receive benefit. I have noticed that many other speakers have been putting in their oar, claiming exemption for this category and that, and I would like to put in mine and claim exemption for this particular type of firm. A firm renting out earth-moving equipment, machine tools, or office equipment is contributing something quite substantial to the manufacturing capacity of the country and I would like to believe that the Chancellor would consider whether these firms could not be transferred into a different section so as to claim advantage from the proposed new tax. I should also like to say, in common with other speakers who have preceded me, that I hope that the Chancellor will find it possible to think again on the question of charities. It seems a little hard that these have to suffer. In conclusion, may I thank the Committee for its indulgence in listening to me?
