gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with some misgiving and much trepidation that I rise to crave the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech. Misgiving, because I feel that I might well have hidden myself behind the prerogative of the ""silent Service"" for some months, if not years, to come, and trepidation at finding myself addressing this House for the first time. It is indeed fortunate that I should have chosen to speak on demobilisation. I am afraid that I cannot answer from the front bench, geographically or in any other way, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, but I would like to attack, if I may use that word in a maiden speech, demobilisation from three first principles, as I call them. Those principles are, first, that we want men out of the Forces. Secondly, we want to know the number of men who should be retained in the Forces. Thirdly, we want to know whether it is possible to obtain faster release. The first of these principles needs very few words from me. It has already been covered by the right hon. Gentleman who opened the Debate. I would like to emphasise that wherever one turns in this country, be it to factories, businesses, shops or hotels, or any form of trade, one always gets the same answer, ""We could do a jolly sight better with more labour."" There is another point of view which has not been mentioned. The women of this country have had a pretty hard war. They have stood up to it well, and all over this country there are families who want their menfolk back to run their affairs. In many cases they want them back to run their family businesses. In a great many cases of young families, a father's influence, and perhaps a father's hand, have been missing for too long. With regard to the number of men we should retain in the Forces, it is perhaps dangerous for a private Member to criticise too much the size of the Armed Forces, for he cannot possibly be fully in the strategic picture, but I would like to ask His Majesty's Government to reconsider most seriously the question of the Forces to be retained next year. I would ask   them to reconsider most seriously the commitments which they think will be imposed upon our Forces. It does not seem logical to me that next Summer, about one year after the end of the war, we should retain Armed Forces far in excess in personnel of those which we would expect to have finally in peace time. I come to the question of whether one can hasten the rate of release. There one comes up immediately against the Bevin plan. I fully appreciate that the plan was thought of some time ago when it was believed that we should be fighting the war against Japan for another eighteen months. I still think that the structure of the Bevin plan should be adhered to, but it must be made more elastic. Compassionate and other cases must be given much more consideration. And a particular reason why it should be adhered to is the statement made by the Secretary of State for War during his recent trip to the Far East. During the nearly 20 years that I have served in the Navy I have learned that leave means a great deal to the Forces. It is commonsense to say that demobilisation and release will mean a very great deal more to them. Therefore I do not like the idea of any compensation in hard cash. That sort of thing cannot be reckoned in hard cash, and I do not think any compensation should be offered to men in the Far East who cannot be got home. The problem has to be tackled as an operation, and the men have to be got home. In the experience I had during the war of joint planning, I think I can safely say that no operation was carried out without it being thought, during its early planning, that shortage of shipping would be the limiting factor. It nearly always turned out that a shortage of shipping was not the limiting factor, and the operations were carried out. I would therefore ask His Majety's Government to make absolutely certain that the enormous personnel lift which we have is used fully and in the proper manner. I hope it is not presumptuous on my part to suggest that the Prime Minister should write a minute to the First Lord of the Admiralty and the Minister of War Transport in something like these words: ""Let me have the best solution worked out. Do not argue the matter, the difficulties will argue for themselves."" Those words,  I understand, have produced very good results in the past. Before I leave demobilisation may I say a word or two about Class B? I, in company with many hon. Members from all sides of the House, think that the Class B releases have been grossly mishandled. I would like to suggest that releases under Class B should be doubled and should be made compulsory. Men were conscripted into the Forces for the emergency of war, and I see absolutely no reason why they should not be conscripted out of the Forces for the emergency of peace. If they are to be conscripted out, the financial conditions for Class A and Class B must of course be made the same. I would like to turn for a moment or two from demobilisation to derequisitioning. In the Borough of Chelsea, which I have the honour to represent in this House, there are at this moment some 230 premises, nearly all residential, held by Government Departments. That is going on all over the country. There are in the country 2,700 hotels and boarding houses alone held by Government Departments. Chelsea, as this House knows, in common with other parts of London, did not escape unscarred from nearly six years of total war, and there is therefore an acute housing problem. On walking round my constituency, what do I see? Building after building full of civil servants and drivers of motor vehicles who have to be accommodated in London. It is an accepted philosophy that necessity is the mother of invention, and I think it is time that the Government realised that the necessity which conceived requisitioning is now over, and that the present necessity is to find somewhere for people to live, somewhere for the people who have been bombed out, somewhere for those who have to return to London from other districts, and somewhere for those who are coming out of the Forces. I would ask all the Departments concerned to reassess their staffs and then to reassess the premises they require. I hope that that will result in the derequisitioning almost at once of at any rate the majority. I am sure that hon. Members in all parts of the House would much rather see civil servants overcrowded in their peacetime offices with a minimum of requisitioned property than see families of about six people of all ages trying to live in one or two rooms. A final word on a very personal point. I would like to say how much I disagree with the Government's decision not to thank the leaders of our Armed Forces by name. Throughout this war praise and blame have been fairly attributed where they have been due, and I am sure that the same policy will be carried out in the histories which are being written or are about to be written. Why cannot we thank our leaders, whose names will go down to posterity as the men who led us in this great struggle? In a recent statement the Prime Minsiter said that he did not think it would be in the spirit of the times. I do not think that is the point at all. I think it is merely another illustration of that Socialist doctrine of merging the individual into the masses, a doctrine which we on this side of the House abhor.
