gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
First, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to thank you for calling me to make my maiden speech in the Scotland debate. I echo the other maiden speakers in thanking the Speaker and his colleagues for their courtesy and the Officers and staff of the House for their continuing kindness and assistance to new Members. I have the honour to succeed Betty Harvie Anderson as Member for Renfrewshire, East. She was elected to the constituency in 1959 and she worked with immense vigour and considerable success for 20 years on behalf of her constituents. She also made a great contribution to British public life—especially to that of the House. Having been Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means and Deputy Speaker, she fills a unique position in parliamentary history as the first woman to sit in the Speaker's Chair. I am sure that all hon. Members warmly welcome the recent recognition of her services to the nation and to the House in her elevation to another place. We look forward to her continued vigorous participation in parliamentary affairs. Renfrewshire, East is a constituency of considerable contrast and variety. Its western end contains a major car factory which is a leading example of multinational investment in Scotland. There are rural villages—Uplawmoor and Neil-ston—the residential community of Ralston, and the industrial centre of Barr-head, which depends strongly on a variety of small and medium-sized firms. The bulk of the electorate live in the Eastwood district. Many would argue that the district is one of the successes of local government reorganisation. It has the right balance between rural life and town services. I moved voluntarily from the southeast of England to west central Scotland. That area often has a bad image, perhaps as a result of an earlier debate on the dispersal of civil servants' jobs to Scotland. However, within Renfrewshire, East there is a variety of housing and the quality of life is not exceeded anywhere else in the United Kingdom. It is perhaps particularly appropriate that in his maiden speech Betty Harvie Anderson's successor should support the repeal of the Scotland Act, because no   one could have worked to oppose the Act with greater vigour, determination and conviction than she. We must now look ahead. First, can we learn any lessons from the failure of the Act to receive anything like the level of popular support that its proponents expected? I should like to make two points. First, the campaign for the Act suffered from a fatal flaw. The right hon. Member for Glasgow, Craigton (Mr. Millan) and his colleagues argued for the Act on, broadly speaking, two grounds—that it was a reasonable and sensible reform of government and that this sort of devolution would halt the move to independence. The Scottish National Party argued with great conviction precisely the opposite. It argued that people should vote for the Act on the ground that it would be the first step to independence. In looking ahead, the first point that arises from the referendum debate is that we must always ask where any change will lead in the long term. Secondly, I should like to refer to the role of the business community. Renfrewshire, East has a large number of business men and the business community was strongly opposed to the Scotland Act, a fact that was often not understood by supporters of the Act. There was an amazing campaign during the referendum about who financed ""Scotland Says 'No'"". It was first suggested that the campaign was being financed by the English. At one point, even the CBI was accused of financing it—though that was clearly absurd. Next, we were told that faceless multinationals were financing the campaign, then it was alleged to be Dutch land speculators, and after that Arab land speculators. The only traditional bogeymen who were not mentioned as financing the campaign were the CIA and the South African secret service. The fact is that the ""Scotland Says 'No'"" campaign was financed by Scottish business men, large and small, because of their grave concern about the implications of the Act for investment and jobs. In looking ahead, we must look to the effects of any changes on Scotland's wealth creators—the business community. I support the line taken by my right  hon. Friend the Secretary of State in regard to all-party talks. Of his four options, I am attracted, as he is, to the route of stronger Select Committees. I do not support the simple status quo, but there are strong arguments for it. It commands at least substantial minority support in Scotland, as the opinion polls on the subject have indicated. It may be that the status quo has more support in Scotland than any other option. It is arguable that it has the support of perhaps more than 50 per cent. of those who vote Conservative as well as support in other parties. The general election certainly showed no manifest desire in Scotland for radical change. Seven of my hon. Friends gained seats from the SNP. On the Labour side, the views of the hon. Member for West Lothian (Mr. Dalyell) on devolution were well known, and he increased his majority from about 2,000 to about 21,000. In addition, although we wish the all-party talks well, it may be that there will not be agreement between the parties. In that case, we shall retain the status quo. My main point is that the onus of proof is on the advocates of change. It is argued that there are substantial imperfections in the government of Scotland, but evidence of imperfection is not, in itself, a justification for change. If we advocate a change we must prove that it would be a positive improvement. We are justified in having change only if there is broad support for it. It would be pointless for the Government to present to the House a scheme that was opposed by the overwhelming majority of Opposition Members. We would be back playing the Scotland Act, with the parties reversed. In conclusion, I thank hon. Members on both sides for hearing my first speech in the customary polite silence—more or less. In fully supporting Government policy, I suggest that we should proceed with care and caution. If there is to be change, we should proceed to it only on the basis of a much wider consensus of support, both inside and outside the House, than the Scotland Act ever received.
