gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a great honour to be making a maiden speech in the House of Commons. First, I should like to refer to my election campaign. It was fair as far as the Conservative opponent was concerned. However, it was marred somewhat by the importation by the Liberals of a nephew of the retiring Member of Parliament, Mr. Simon Mahon. If Mr. Mahon were here, he would be equally strong in rejecting the idea of nepotism. Nepotism would not be accepted by the people of Bootle. Mr. Mahon owed his success—as did I at this general election—to the people, the Labour Party and movement and the loyal Labour voters of Bootle who returned him as Member of Parliament on many occasions from 1951 onwards and who returned me with an overwhelming majority. That was a good result for the Labour Party in Bootle. I pay tribute to Simon Mahon. I shall continue the work that he did in the constituency. If he were here today, he would agree that we both owe everything to the Labour movement and the Labour voters in Bootle. My constituency has many problems. Their resolution will not be helped by the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the consequences of the Budget. If I look at the situation in Bootle in the light of the Chancellor's speech, perhaps hon. Members may realise what I have in mind. Nationally, there are about 1½ million people unemployed. The facts in Bootle and Merseyside are far more serious than the national figure indicates. Bootle is characterised by a strong dependence upon the port, which has been declining for a considerable number of years. There is a weak manufacturing sector in Bootle and on Merseyside. Unemployment among active males in the constituency is between 12 per cent. and 14 per cent. The majority of the unemployed unskilled men are   not benefiting from any expansion which has taken place in white collar employment in central Bootle in the past 10 years. Between 1961 and 1971, the population of the inner part of the city—the major part of my constituency—declined by 24 per cent.;15,000 people left the area as there were no employment prospects. Only 5·3 per cent. of the economically active men in the area between the ages of 17 and 65 are in the professional classes, about 24 per cent. are unskilled manual workers, 74 per cent. of the house-holds do not own a car, and 21 out of the 24 primary schools are classified as social priority schools. It is obvious from those statistics that there is a great deal of deprivation in the area. Many people receive unemployment benefit and social security payments and are on low incomes. Not one of them will benefit from the Budget. They will suffer considerably in a number of ways. First, industrial and employment subsidies will be cut. No doubt the Secretary of State for Industry will say whether Merseyside will retain its development area status. Nationally as a result of the Budget we shall lose £380 million, which would have gone directly to support and help and create jobs that were provided by the previous Labour Government. The people of the area are sick and tired of politicians in London and else where blaming Merseyside's problems on the militancy of the trade union movement and the work force. The militancy occurs as a consequence of the problems and unemployment—and not the other way round. The unemployment and the problems came first. In the early 1970s, Liverpool saw the continuation of the trend of the previous decades in declining job opportunities in the city. Over the 10 years from 1961 to 1971, 75,000 jobs were lost from the city and 19 per cent. of the local work force left Liverpool. That dramatic decline was halted only temporarily by the national economic boom of 1972 and 1973. Further substantial losses have been recorded since then, according to the planning officer of the city of Liverpool. I come to the Government's cut of £440 million in the environment programme. When the Chancellor announced that he would repeal the Community Land Act  and that that would save money, and spoke of the water authorities and cuts in housing, Government supporters cheered. They especially cheered the announcement about the Community Land Act. The budget for the Community Land Act in this financial year is only £54 million. Of the £440 million to be cut from environmental expenditure, only £54 million can be taken from the Community Land Act—and that will happen if everything in the pipeline is stopped and no more loans sanctions are given. From where will the £440 million come? Not from Community Land Act expenditure. It will come from the water authorities and housing. There is provision of £478 million in this year's Budget for the water authorities. Before the Budget, local authorities and regional water boards had been instructed to stop letting out capital contracts. What will happen? The water rate will go up over and above the 3½ per cent. increase in the cost of living resulting from the VAT increase. ; There is underground dereliction in the North-West. Merseyside and Manchester are ignored. Sewers are already collapsing. That problem must be dealt with. Proposed industrial development and housing schemes, either for sale or rent, will not be able to go ahead as the water authority must not let the capital contracts to provide the infrastructure and drains. Then there is housing, with £1,500 million revenue spent this year and £2,146 million on capital. That is where the cuts will come. In addition to the increase in VAT and rents going up, housing programmes will be halted. Council houses will not be built. How can this help the people of Bootle, the people of Merseyside, the people in industrial areas, who are on waiting lists? These people will face a terrible situation. Then we have the bank rate going up from 12 per cent. to 14 per cent. That will hit small businesses. It will also hit the owner-occupier with his mortgage. I do not know how the so-called enforced sale of council houses will be funded. How will local authorities lend the money when they are having to borrow it at more than 14 per cent.? No one will be able to afford to buy a council house. That is the position before the new policy is even introduced. There will be more cuts. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said so. I urge all Labour local authorities, wherever they are in the country, to levy a supplementary rate now. I urge them not to wait until next April, when the Chancellor's Budget has been forgotten and the voters might blame the Labour councillors. I advise them to put on a supplementary rate now. Every Labour councillor in the country should tell the people in his area that it is the consequence of the Chancellor's budget, and that the authority intends to raise the money now so that the house-building programme and the essential social services may be maintained. The people in areas such as Bootle need these services because they are on low incomes and are entirely dependent on the social wage. They cannot afford to pay for their use of the Health Service, or for their housing, without help from the Government. I am very concerned about the drift towards the means-test State. I am by profession a social worker. I am probably the first social worker, if not one of the first social workers, by profession to be elected to Parliament. I believe that in that respect I have some responsibility for fighting in this House for the deprived, for the underprivileged and for the very people who were stigmatised during the election campaign by the right hon. Lady who is now the Prime Minister. These are the people to whom Conservative Members refer so easily and so glibly as the scroungers. I have the duty as a social worker to fight for the people who represent minority groups in our society. I am a member of the British Association of Social Workers. I pay tribute to the work that social workers do, and I shall fight on behalf of the underprivileged. The underprivileged will not benefit from measures designed to shift the burden of taxation from direct to indirect taxation. The very idea that this shift will give more freedom to poor people to decide how to spend their money when they have no money to spend anyway is absolute nonsense. The widow, on a pension, buying something in the shops, pays the same amount of VAT as a millionaire buying the same product. It is absolute nonsense to talk about giving people more freedom. The Tories intend to increase the cost of housing, prescription charges and so on. Instead of giving a universal benefit and providing everybody with a subsidy, their intention is to put up the charges and then to tell the people who are in need that they can fill in a form in order to apply for a rebate, and fill in a form in order to have an annual means test. It is annual financial striptease that these people are being asked to undertake. This must be fought on behalf of the people who are underprivileged, the people who are in need and the people who often do not get the benefits and rights to which they are entitled. Bootle is a Labour constituency and the problems of my constituents are not helped by the fact that it is situated in the metropolitan district of Sefton, which seems to be permanently Tory-controlled. The area includes Crosby, Formby and Southport. We have in Bootle government from Southport. The Southport Conservatives are so Rightwing that they make the Stockport and the Tameside Conservatives look like Communists. I do not know why Stockport and Tameside get all the publicity and Sefton does not. It absolutely amazes me. I shall fight in this House to stop government from Southport and to get a change in local government boundaries, so that the people of Bootle and Litherland, the area that I represent, can have their own council back and decide their own future for themselves. The hon. Member for Brent, North (Dr. Boyson) once said that the increase in crime was in proportion to the increase in the number of social workers. There is one fewer social worker since I was elected for Bootle, so the crime rate should go down.
