gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a great sense of honour and pride that I rise to make my maiden speech on behalf of the people of the Rhondda valley. I also do so with a great sense of sadness, because I am here as a result of the tragic death of my dear friend, the right hon. Alec Jones. I can say truthfully that I would much rather not be here. Alec Jones served the people of the Rhondda valley in the House for 16 years. He gave his all for his friends and constituents. I am sure that a substantial part of my majority was an overflow from the reservoir of love and affection that Alec had created in our valleys. I only hope that I shall leave behind a similar residue. Alec served his party and his country well, in the House and in Government as a Minister at the Department of Health and Social Security and at the Welsh Office. Recently, in Opposition, he was the shadow Secretary of State for Wales. During the election campaign in the Rhondda and since coming to the House I have heard nothing but praise for Alec's work and the warmth and regard of hon. Members, individually and collectively, have been an immense help to his wife and family in a very difficult period. Following a long line of distinguished Rhondda Members, from Mabon to Alec Jones, I fully realise the heavy responsibility that I have inherited in representing an area which is still suffering, perhaps more than any other part of the United Kingdom, from the rundown of the coal industry. I have had some experience of representing the Rhondda, having served in the European Parliament for the past four years as the Member for South-East Wales. I hope to serve those people with the same diligence in this House as I have tried to exercise in Europe. I have chosen this opportunity to make my maiden speech because of my interest in coal mining and general energy issues. To some people, the name Rhondda conjures up thoughts of derelict coal mines and the ravages wrought by the private companies. The hon. Member for Fife, North-East (Mr. Henderson) mentioned those companies. Perhaps he would like to return the coal industry to them. The Rhondda has improved substantially since it was left that legacy. Presently it will recover. The Rhondda valley is probably the most spectacular of the valleys in south Wales. From the southern end of Porth to Blaencwm, Blaenrhondda and Maerdy the eye is constantly assailed by spectacular scenery. The area was far more beautiful before coal mining started about 100 years ago. The beautiful oak forests were destroyed by the indiscriminate and thoughtless exploitation of the resource. The people of the Rhondda valley have to live with that. Whereas 40 collieries existed once, only two pits are now open and one of them is to close soon. Many of the closures are due to geological problems and the exhaustion of reserves. That is accepted, but Opposition Members in particular know that many closures are the result of the lack of an effective energy policy for the United Kingdom. We hope that the Government will produce a rational plan for the development of energy resources. When better to plan such a policy than at a time of plenty, instead of it being an hysterical response to a crisis. In a document accompanying the order the Department of Energy states that the National Coal Board needs an increase in external finance because of reduced demand and low prices of competitive fuel and overseas coal. Higher interest charges have also been a factor leading to a need for increased borrowing. It seems not to matter that our mines are the most efficient in the world. It does not seem to matter that the output per man shift has increased continually since ""Plan for Coal"". That was not taken into account in hon. Members' obtuse mathematics. The miners are suffering from success. The penalty of success in the mining industry is closure. Because of the Government's inability to keep energy demand at a reasonable level, the miners who have worked so hard to make the industry efficient and effective have to suffer the penalty. I was intrigued by some remarks by the hon. Member for Fife, North-East, who has a fishing as well as a coal interest. He spoke of introducing competition to the coal mining industry. It is obvious that he knows nothing about the industry, but he has an obvious need to read chapter after chapter from documents. I have a copy of the Coal industry Commission Act 1919, which I commend to the House and an interim report by the commission, chaired by Mr. Justice Sankey, who later became Lord Chancellor. The first world war was almost lost because of the incompetence of private industry in providing the necessary back-up for our soldiers in France. It was decided to set up the Royal Commission and its recommendations were substantial. It was said that the coalmining industry was too vital to the country to be left to private greed. In 1919 the commission stated categorically: Even upon the evidence already given, the present system of ownership and working in the coal industry stands condemned, and some other system must be substituted for it, either nationalisation or a method of unification by national purchase and/or by joint control. It went on to state, illuminatingly: We are prepared, however, to report now that it is in the interests of the country that the colliery worker shall in the future have an effective voice in the direction of the mine. Even in 1919 Mr. Justice Sankey suggested that our indigenous fuel resources were too precious to our economy to be left in the hands of private industry. However, that has been the sad history of nationalisation in Britain. One after another of our industries has had to be nationalised because it has been driven to bankruptcy in private ownership. Once the state has restored an industry to profit, the Conservative party wants to sell it off to make money for its friends. They cannot do that with coal mining, because the miners will not stand for it. When Conservative Members quote facts, they should at least get them right. British miners can compete against the miners of any other country, and certainly against their European colleagues. I shall give the House some comparative figures issued by Commissioner Davignon to the European Parliament committee on energy and research. He sets out the financial measures taken by member states to support coal mining output. I am sorry that the figures are in ecus. I should much rather be out of the Common Market so that we could measure them in sterling, but as Conservative Members wish us to remain in the Community they can multiply the figures by 0.·58 to convert them to a decent  coinage. The Federal Republic of Germany's support in ecus per tonne is 7·97. In Belgium it is 31·68, in. France it is 36·4 and in the United Kingdom it is 5·81 Does the Conservative party expect the British miners to compete under that handicap? Is that a free market? Are they unfettered going into the areas in which we wish them to compete? If the Minister does not believe that these are valid figures, I am prepared to argue them more forcefully. the figures show indirect measures, such as special depreciation, facilities for expansion, rationalisation for coal mining underground, expenditure on season tickets and — this is a new concept for NUM-sponsored Members—reduced holiday travel warrants for miners. Perhaps there is some benefit in staying in the Community. The direct measures include investment aid, concession for initial innovation, miner's bonuses, aid to attract qualified personnel, pit head stock aid, aid for contingency stocks, aid for power station coal, aid to cover pit operating losses, and a separate category of coking coal aid. I am sorry, Mr. Deputy Speaker, if I have broken with tradition by making such a maiden speech, but I am passionate about coal mining. I am the youngest of 12 children, and my father, who was a coal miner, was crippled in 1926 and did not have an opportunity to work until the war brought some jobs to my area of south Wales, so perhaps the House can understand my passion. My opinion of miners—it is a reasoned judgment—is that they are the hardest workers that one could come across and that they are a proud people. I am proud to represent them, the Rhondda valley, and to have succeeded Mr. Alec Jones.
