gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I first pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Idris Owen, who, although he sat in the House for a fairly short time, worked hard on behalf of his constituents. As the new Member for Stockport, North, I do not want on this occasion to describe all the problems of the whole of my constituency, but rather to concentrate on one, the area's housing problem. The major housing problem facing the people of Stockport is the size of its housing waiting list. There are now more than 3,000 people on that list. It is not just the size of the list but the time that some of those people have been on it that concerns me. An issue which arises from that is the appalling housing conditions in which many people now on the list are living. During the past 12 months it has been extremely difficult to get people housed from clearance areas. Some families have remained for months in the odd house in a row when all the others are empty. I saw one house on Saturday where the occupier is the only person left in a courtyard of six. The house has a badly leaking roof, a broken toilet, and all the walls are running with water, yet the housing department sees little prospect of rehousing her for another month or so. There is also the problem of the elderly, many of whom are housed in Stockport in houses far too large for them. On Saturday, I visited a lady who has thrombosis in the leg. She lives in a six-roomed house and has to negotiate 10 steps each time she wishes to go to the outside toilet. For her there is little prospect of rehousing at present. During the election campaign I spoke to many young couples who wanted to get out of one-roomed bedsitters hoping that they could soon get a house and be able to start a family. They, too, have little prospect of getting off that housing waiting list. This housing waiting list has steadily grown in Stockport during the period of the Housing Finance Act, which was supposed to help to solve the housing problem. Yet, in Stockport as throughout the country it has done nothing to provide extra homes. The problem in Stockport is getting building land for the local authority, and  I welcome the proposals in the Gracious Speech to bring land for development into public ownership. What is perhaps ironic in Stockport is that as the housing waiting list has continued to grow, so has the number of empty houses on private estates. Within the constituency there are two substantial private estates where the builders are having extreme difficulty finding anyone to purchase houses because, as everyone knows, obtaining a mortgage is nigh impossible for a young couple. I welcome the provision in the Gracious Speech for helping these people to buy houses so that we can end the ridiculous situation of 3,000 people on the housing waiting list and at least 100 houses now empty and waiting for would-be purchasers. I am also disappointed that there was not more reference in the Gracious Speech to the problem of the continued deterioration of houses. It is sad that the provision for 70 per cent. grants for home improvements will run out on 23rd June. It is unfortunate that when that legislation was brought in it took most local authorities by surprise, certainly in Stockport, where there was a shortage of staff to process applications. That shortage has now been overcome, but certainly some people who wanted to take advantage of improvement grants encountered such delays. Having overcome those delays, they have recently found it extremely difficult to find builders. Clearly, the building industry was not ready for that level of home improvement grants. Gradually, the building trade, at least in Stockport, began to cope with the situation. But over the past few months shortage of building materials made doing so extremely difficult, and there is a story—possibly true—of small jobbing builders touring Stockport in search of bags of cement to fulfil promises to carry out home improvements. Therefore, I am faced with the situation that may people in my constituency are coming to me desperately wanting to take advantage of these grants but saying they cannot find a builder, or that their builder will not be able to meet the June deadline. I hope that it will be possible to extend the deadline for 12 months and that, if that is not feasible it will be possible for all improvement work started by 23rd June to qualify   for the grant, rather than only work that will be completed by that date. Finally, I hope that the legislation promised in the Gracious Speech will mean that within the next two years the housing waiting list in Stockport, as throughout the country, will be drastically reduced.
