gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is the custom in a maiden speech to pay tribute to one's predecessor. I do so without hesitation. Mr. Harry Selby, who represented Govan in the previous Parliament, did an excellent job. I am sure that my return to represent Govan reflects the work that Harry did over the last five or six years. Today has been a day of doom and misery for Govan. I was not overwhelmed by what I heard today, but I was concerned and a little afraid about the nauseating class character of the policies announced by the Government. In particular, as a boilermaker and someone who has been a victim of the so-called winding down of shipbuilding on Clyde-side, I must say that no Tory Member can tell me that I should find a job elsewhere. I wonder how many Government supporters can tell me how one finds a job in an area such as Govan where 80 per cent. of a ship is built outside the shipyard and the costs for shipbuilding fall on the whole community. I laugh when I hear about selling parts of shipbuilding back into private hands—the hands of those who have claimed God's gift to look after the industry. I can tell the House from personal experience what happens when a shipyard worker is subjected to a so-called ""family"" shipyard. There was a slight recession in Govan in 1946. A ship was lying on the stocks red with rust and the shipyard workers' only consolation was to put their tools in a pawnshop. After a period, one of the family saw a carpenter in the yard opening his toolbox. Looking in, he said ""Chippie, your tools are very rusty."" Back came the logical reply ""Yes, but you should have seen my bloody frying pan."" That is a measure of the crime that can be committed by the policies of this Government. If, after six short weeks, they are prepared to throw down the gauntlet of face-to-face confrontation with the trade union and labour movement, I advise them to speak to the right hon. Member for Sidcup (Mr. Heath) who as Prime Minister tried it with UCS in 1971. The tactics may be different, but the result will be the same. We are prepared to fight for our jobs. Already we have taken steps to unite the   trade union and labour movement. One cannot discard a man's skilled job in the same way as one can throw away a cigarette packet. Men depend upon their jobs. The Government must not demoralise people. The class conscious character of the Government was revealed today when the announcement was made about the aerospace industry. They were all for that industry but nothing was said to help shipbuilding because there is no profit to be made at present in shipbuilding. It is worth remembering that we spent £14 million a day in the last war. That was on a struggle for democracy and for decency. Today's Government should try to provide financial support for our basic industries. We have invested £35 million in Govan. It was a good investment for Govan and for the western central belt of Scotland. If the Government fail to recognise the crucial consequences of their action, I urge them to take heed of the warning from Govan. God help the Government if they try to close the Govan, or any other, shipyard in Scotland.
