gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Once or twice in the last few weeks I have thought that one of the things which must make right hon. and hon. Members opposite regret still more the result of the election has been the continual flow of speakers from this side of the House craving the indulgence of the House while they make their maiden speeches. If I join this list this evening—and I do most humbly ask for the indulgence of the House during this ordeal—it is because the Amendment, which I wish to support, is one which I believe to be extremely important. My hon. Friends the Members for Wavertree (Mr. Tilney) and Harrow, East (Mr. Harvey), have put the case for increased recruitment and equipment with complete clarity, and I cannot say that I think their case has been in the least shaken by the comic turn of the hon. Member for South Ayrshire (Mr. Emrys Hughes), which I personally greatly enjoyed, because it seemed to me that he was not addressing his observations to the Amendment; his objection is to the entire defence programme of His Majesty's Government. His speech could have been as well made against the Navy Estimates, the Air Estimates or the whole of the Army Estimates. Indeed, I should have thought that the right address for his speech was that of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, because, given the foreign policy of the Government—with which we on this side are broadly in agreement—the defence commitments flow from that foreign policy as night follows day. If we are to honour our commitments overseas we must, without any question I should have thought, honour the defence commitments which flow from that foreign policy. I cannot see that opposition to an Amendment designed to call attention   to the need for increased Territorial Army equipment is the platform on which the hon. Member for South Ayrshire should be speaking. His platform should rather be that of foreign policy. We are all agreed that in the way of Territorial Army recruiting there are certain obvious difficulties, about which we can do very little. There is the aftermath of war, and National Service which takes away many potential recruits to the Territorial Army. There is also the fact that in the last few years there has been a tendency towards earlier marriage. There is a rise in the birth-rate, which means that a very large number of potential recruits are youngish married men with young families, and are not particularly anxious to give up their week-ends to the Territorial Army when they might be playing with their children. We who have tried to recruit men have found that today there are more young married men with young children than there used to be, so that they are far more difficult to recruit into the Territorial Army. There is also what I would call the general increase in the complication of living nowadays, which means that owing to the cost of living and the difficulty of getting things done the average man is tempted to spend his weekends either decorating his house or working in his garden to cut down the greengrocer's bills. All these may seem small things, but they are obstacles which we must somehow overcome. What are we to do about this? It seems quite clear that broadening our field of recruitment can give us only quite limited results. We could perhaps do something if we were able to relax the rule that we cannot recruit men within 12 months of their liability for National Service. Territorial Army units would welcome the opportunity to recruit deferred apprentices before they undertook their National Service obligations, which would give the units a chance of getting the same men back after their period of National Service. We sometimes wonder whether we are ""selling"" the Territorial Army to the National Service men while they are doing their National Service. Are we doing everything possible to get those men back into the Territorial Army as volunteers? The Territorial Army can only be ""sold"" to  these men by Territorials, not by Regular officers, and not by civilians. It is while these men are doing their National Service that we must tackle them. Generally speaking, though, we cannot do much in the way of broadening the field of recruitment. It is clear that we must increase the response in the field which is already being tackled. How are we to do this? Since this is not, despite what the hon. Member for South Ayrshire has said, a party matter, I shall take leave to disagree with one or two of the things said by the mover and seconder of the Amendment. I do not believe that we shall get more recruits to the Territorial Army by any likely change in pay and bounties. Nor do I believe that we shall get more recruits by any of the obvious material incentives. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Wavertree, who said he thought the new blue uniform would help. I think the issue of the No. I dress, which we do not hope for but which we should like to be given some encouraging news of—although I know the difficulties—would make a very great difference to the appeal to the civilian. and particularly to the young civilian who might join the Territorial Army. I am convinced that the problem goes beyond the detailed appeal through incentives to the individual. The problem the Government have to solve is that of the public's view of the Territorial Army. I do not think many people really know what life in the Territorial Army is like: I do not think either that many Regular soldiers know what it is like. They find it difficult to understand that peculiar comradeship, and that peculiarly democratic atmosphere which a good Territorial Army unit can produce. I know that experiences of having Regular officers attached to Territorial Army units vary very much between arms of the Service. My hon. Friend the Member for Harrow, East (Mr. Harvey) who comes from ""Ack-Ack""—which is a world in itself as far as the Territorial Army is concerned—spoke with some pain of the lack of Regular Army adjutants. He had other experiences which are quite different from mine. I come from a field force unit in the London area. We have always had Regular adjutants, and they have been selected and trained with the   utmost skill. They have been extraordinarily good and, while we may be peculiar and lucky in that way, we have certainly benefited. It is the public whose attitude has to be changed, not the attitude of the Regular Army. However, the public attitude certainly cannot be changed without a clear and strong lead from the Government, because it is the esteem in which the Territorial Army is held by the public that will determine the response to its recruiting drive. We are sometimes surprised to find how complete is the public ignorance of the need for a Territorial Army, and until that need is recognised we have no hope of fulfilling our recruiting aims. Therefore, while I agree that the publicity campaign has to be carefully framed and is all-important, what we want is a public campaign aimed at building up the esteem in which the Territorial Army is held, not one aimed solely at the person whom we are seeking to persuade into the Territorial Army. The Government should know something about this because they have used somewhat the same kind of campaign for recruiting coalminers. A large-scale publicity campaign was launched to raise the public esteem in which the coalminer was held. It is not for me to say how successful that has been, but I am sure it was the right approach. An effort was made to tell the public that the coalminer was a man on whom the prosperity and the comfort of the nation depended, that the coalminer now was a man who needed the technical skill of an engineer, the courage of a soldier, and a number of other qualities which perhaps the public had not previously been ready to ascribe to him. That was an essential part of the recruiting campaign. Something of the same kind must be applied to the recruiting campaign for the Territorial Army, because unless the lead from the Government is absolutely clear and unmistakable the public will not react. During 1947 and 1948 we in the Territorial Army felt a little dubious about the absolute and unequivocal support which the Government were giving us in our recruiting efforts. We could see the difficulties with which they were faced quite clearly: they did not want to take too many men away at holiday time  from production in order to send them to camps; they did not want to take them off industrial overtime at weekends to send them to Territorial Army training periods. But we cannot compromise on matters like that with any hope of getting anything done. We must come out and say, ""We shall have to take the risk of losing production; we shall have to lose something if we are to gain anything."" If we are to get recruits we must say, ""The Territorial Army and its recruitment are absolutely vital and essential to our defence. If we do not recruit those people we are sunk""—as we shall be—"" and everything must be subordinate to it."" We have seen that even the slightest international scare produces a slight increase in recruiting. During the Berlin blockade we saw the effects in our recruiting figures because the Government were devoting a certain amount of time and effort to impressing the seriousness of the defence position upon the public. Slightly, but quite perceptibly, the public began to react. I will conclude by putting forward a few suggestions as to the kind of things which the Government, and particularly the War Office, might do to foster public esteem for the Territorial Army. They are not all things under the direct control of the Secretary of State for War, but I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman would be able to obtain the co-operation of the people concerned to get these things done. First, I would urge the right hon. Gentleman to appreciate the need for perpetual and continuous publicity. In the past the War Office has been rather oversensitive about its publicity. People come along and say, ""That poster is no good; scrap it,"" so they scrap it. The effect of a poster takes a long time to build up, and the publicity department of the right hon. Gentleman should have the credit of their convictions and plug away at a good poster when they have it. If necessary, let people all over the country get used to a single standard poster. I do not want it to become part of the furniture of the hoardings exactly, but a cumulative effect is worth any number of separate little patchy posters which are continually changed. Another suggestion for continuity is that instead of periodical jamborees run by boroughs and county councils, we should have a regular annual defence day   or defence week which everybody knows is coming and in which the Territorial Army units of the country can all share at the same time. If that became an annual feature, I think people would look forward to it. They would begin to say, ""I would not mind being in that sort of thing myself next year,"" and it would begin to have some effect. Another small but important thing is to encourage local newspapers to run every week a Territorial Army news column containing all the local Territorial Army news. I do not know whether all the newspapers would be prepared to cooperate. Personally, I think they would, but such local interest and local continuity sows the seed of interest in the would-be recruit, and gets him gradually used to the idea of regarding the local Territorial Army unit as something which concerns him personally. Then there is the approach to industry, without which we shall not get anywhere at all. Before the war a number of firms became, so to speak, godparents or foster parents to a Territorial Army unit and some good results were achieved. In some cases there were companies manned almost entirely by the employees of a single firm. There are, of course, certain disadvantages in that. If the firm simply transfers an unsatisfactory pattern of industrial relations within itself to a Territorial Army unit the results are deplorable. That, however, is avoidable. It is most undesirable that the managing director should be the commanding officer, that the senior N.C.O's. should be the foremen, and that the departmental heads should be the company commanders; but if that can be avoided—and it can, usually by having a commanding officer from outside the firm and infusing a proportion of outside warrant officers and officers—the results can be very satisfactory indeed. Where that is not possible, if county associations can make a direct approach to local firms and give them a quota for the year at which to aim the results would be much more satisfactory than the present piece-meal approaches which have been made. I am quite sure that if a unit or a county association said to a large firm, ""We want 50 recruits from your firm next year and, possibly, another 50 the year after,"" and the firm accepted  and tackled that proposition through its works council and joint consultation machinery we might get something done. I say deliberately ""through its joint consultation machinery,"" because unless this is done with the approval of the trade unions, we shall get nowhere. The influence of the trade unions and of local trades councils in this matter is very important. I know that in some cases, where local union branches or trades councils are dominated or controlled by the sort of people who spend their time passing resolutions denouncing the right hon. Gentleman the Foreign Secretary as an imperialist war-monger, this presents some difficulties. But, fortunately, these cases are by no means typical. This matter is comparatively non-party. On both sides of the House we are generally agreed on the absolute necessity of recruiting for the Government are committed to it, and I cannot feel that trade union leaders on the whole can possibly oppose it. But I do not think we have the support from trade union leaders that we might expect. It is difficult for them, I know, but the best support they can give is to encourage people, not in the top rank of the trades unions, but those who are highly influential locally among the younger people, who are influential in the firms in the area, to join the Territorial Army themselves and to let it be known widely that they have done so because they believe it is something essential which they must do for their country. The effect within industry would be out of proportion to the effect of one single recruit joining the Territorial Army. If we can get the trade union interest to show itself in the concrete form of providing recruits from the influential members of the unions, then the rank and file in industry will be very much more willing to follow. When we have taken all these measures to increase the esteem in which the Territorial Army is felt, then is the time to go ahead with the approach which will pull in recruits; the seeds have first to be sown, however, and the atmosphere has to be created. The County of London Association have this winter introduced an extraordinarily good scheme for recruitment, but the background is not yet complete. I ask the right hon. Gentleman for an assurance that this vital task of tackling   the background and of building up the right atmosphere will be pushed forward with all the energy of which his Department are capable. We shall then begin to see some results in this all important matter.
