gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, I am most grateful to you for calling me to deliver my maiden speech so early in the debate. I represent the brand-new constituency of Congleton which lies in south-east Cheshire and comprises parts from   four former constituencies. I pay tribute to all my predecessors for their service to their constituents both in the House and elsewhere, and I am delighted to see at least one of them in the Chamber this morning. I refer, of course, to my hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton). The constituency of Congleton is part rural and part urban. Our many thriving communities each have an independent character, be it the old Cheshire salt town of Middlewich which is bounded on three sides by canals; the thriving market town of Sandbach, which is well known all over the world for the manufacture of heavy commercial vehicles by such companies as ERF Ltd. and for the skills of its work force which have been handed down from father to son. There are also the largely residential villages of Alsager with its beautiful mere, Holmes Chapel and Haslington which, with its surrounding parishes, is the only part of the constitueny to come within the Crewe and Nantwich borough council. The major part of the constituency falls of course within the Congleton borough council. Last, but not least, we come to Congleton itself which is well known locally for its biannual carnival and military tattoo, which, incidentally, is the largest in the north-west and, I think, outside London. We are very proud of it, and also of its clothing, textile and narrow fabric industries. Many years ago, Congleton attracted some notoriety which is summed up in the old rhyme: Congleton rare, Congleton rare, Sold the Bible to buy a bear"". I believe that the story is that, sadly, the town bear suddenly died just before Congleton Wakes, and the 16 shillings put aside by the good townspeople to buy a new town Bible was used to purchase a new bear to take part in the bear-baiting, which was a very popular spectator sport in those days—I suspect that it is quite popular in the House these days in another form! However, history does not tell whether the good townsfolk saved up another 16 shillings to buy another Bible, but I am sure that they did. Each of the places in my constituency that I have mentioned is set in attractive and well-husbanded farm lands where the farming community plays such an important role in rural life. We have some of the most efficient and productive dairy farms in Europe. They are not producing the surpluses, and they are certainly not very happy with the Government's proposal to admit sterilised milk and pasteurised cream, in addition to UHT milk, which we have been obliged to admit from the EC. Coming from a small family business background and representing a constituency which contains within it many diverse small to medium-sized businesses, it was natural that I should wish to contribute to today's debate. I commend the Government for doing much to encourage the setting up of new, small business ventures because they recognise, as I do, that these will be the seed corn of our economic recovery and will, as they become established and expand, provide opportunities for future employment. Many of the more successful companies in my constituency started some time ago, often as family concerns. They have expanded over the years to become major employers locally and successfully to export their goods all over the world. One such example is Berisfords, the ribbon manufacturer, based in Congleton, which this  year is celebrating the 125th anniversary of its founding, and I am glad to say that there are still members of the original family running it today. During the recess, I had the opportunity of visiting local business and industry of every size—small, medium and large. Some had been set up relatively recently as a direct result of the Government's incentives—for example, the loan guarantee scheme — and others, more firmly established, survived the depression by mammoth capital investment and modernisation, although sadly, but inevitably, with a cut in the size of the work force. I do not believe that on the whole people realise that we have been, and still are, living through an industrial revolution, the effects of which, unlike previous industrial changes, have been cushioned by unemployment benefit and the welfare state. In the future, industry must be more competitive and make a realistic profit to help pay for those who are out of work or schemes which may help alleviate the problem, such as the youth training scheme, early or flexible retirement or even work sharing. These schemes and palliatives — admirable though they may be — are extremely costly, and we must look to industry and commerce to provide more jobs, especially in manufacturing, which I believe is the real wealth creator, and also in service industries so that jobs are available for young and old. It would be foolhardy for anyone to suggest that we shall ever again see unemployment down to 598,000, which was the level that prevailed when the Conservatives lost office in 1974. For many reasons, which time does not permit me to describe today, unemployment is unlikely to fall below the 2 million mark. However, so often, once these new small business ventures have become established and are in production, they enter the second and most difficult phase of their development which arises as a direct result of undercapitalisation. They are almost in a Catch 22 position, only just surviving and paying their suppliers but being unable to raise sufficient capital for further development and expansion or even the promotion of their goods to encourage sales which often proves to be a formidable expense. It is those expanded sales which are vital to bring down the cost of manufacture so that the goods they produce will be competitive in the market place. The banks have not been as helpful as they might have been in a number of instances which have been brought to my attention. The merchant banks and the money market nearly always demand equity, which erodes the position of those who founded the company. I find it disturbing that the banks have not done more to invest in manufacturing in the United Kingdom rather than just pile up interest by moving money around to attract the best rates, or, alternatively, by investing overseas. Similarly, the Government must create the right climate for business to expand. Interest rates and all the overhead costs which come under Government control either directly or indirectly—whether the Government admit it or not—are important here. All that industry asks is that it should meet fair competition and operate on equal terms with our overseas competitors. It asks for no favours. As a result of the world depression, smaller businesses have had to cut to the bone but still find that they are beaten on overheads—for example, telephone and postal charges, rates and exorbitant energy costs. I had hoped that the Government in their wisdom would do more than tinker with the rating problem but, instead, they propose half measures which I consider will not be much help to business or commerce. I remind the House that commerce and industry pay the majority of the rate income raised locally, yet they still have no meaningful say in local government. High rates amount to yet another tax on employment. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to devise a fairer system. Possibly in the future, the funding of national services such as education, fire and police could be transferred from the local to the national purse, while leaving the decisions as to how those funds should be administered to a local committee, served—I hasten to add—by a modest, inexpensive secretariat, which would reflect local needs and differences. As for energy, many companies in my constituency, especially those in the chemical and paper board industries, have been extremely hard hit by this cost. How can we compete with our European partners when, although they have few indigenous fuel supplies, they can supply their industries with cut-price energy? On the one hand the Government, say, ""Compete"", but on the other they are not providing the conditions under which fair competition is possible. One subject raised with me time and time again by those who run small businesses is employment legislation. Until the conditions are created where a company can take on and, unfortunately when economically necessary, lay off men without running the risk of having to spare precious executive time in court justifying their decisions and having to meet heavy redundancy payments, there will inbe no overall answer to the high unemployment problem. When the day dawns that a would-be employer can take on extra staff, and take a risk with them, it will augur well for future employment prospects. The Employment Protection Act legislates against employment and should be scrapped or substantially amended. The Government have started on the right path with their measures to encourage enterprise and endeavour, but they must follow through with their principles to the bitter end, displaying a more pragmatic and, I firmly believe, a more patriotic approach to smaller businesses. They must tackle the problems which face smaller businesses much more vigorously, especially those in the manufacturing sector. This country cannot live on the service industries alone, as they in turn feed and prosper because of the bedrock of our manufacturing base. With the generation of new real wealth so produced, this country would be in a better position to lower taxation and to provide the better services in education and health care, among others, which both sides of the House wish to see. The Government must not simply pay lip service; they must set both the climate and the example. If they think British and buy British, small businesses in particular and all of us in general will prosper.
