gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech in such an important debate on a subject of great interest and relevance to my constituents. I am proud to represent the new constituency of Renfrew, West and Inverclyde, which has come about as a result of boundary changes and is, in effect, the altered former constituency of Renfrewshire, West. The boroughs of Renfrew and Johnston have been excluded and a small part of Greenock has been included. Normally when one pays tribute to the former Member for a constituency one is speaking of a person who has been despatched from this House. In this case it is my privilege to acknowledge his virtues in his temporary absence, for the man who previously represented the bulk of my seat is the present hon. Member for Paisley, South (Mr. Buchan). The electorate did not exactly turn out for me in droves, but the hon. Member for Paisley, South showed consummate political nous by moving out when I decided to move in. He is remembered in the constituency as an excellent constituency Member, a kind man and dedicated. If he did not always command respect for his political views, he certainly won it on a personal basis. He is an acknowledged expert on agriculture, and I wish him every success in his new fields or pastures in Paisley, though he will have to go a long way before he finds farms there. A small portion of the new constituency of Renfrew, West and Inverclyde was represented in the previous Parliament by Dr. Dickson Mabon, who was a distinguished Member. Friends and colleagues alike remember him with affection and respect. The former Members who represented areas within the new constituency were much respected and I have a great tradition to follow. In the inter-war period Scrymgeour Wedderburn served in this place, and he served his constituents well. He became the Earl of Dundee and moved to another place. His recent death has saddened all those who knew him. After the war Jack Maclay represented the constituency. He is known in another place as Viscount Muirshiel. He served as the Secretary of State for Scotland as well as being a representative of Renfrewshire in the 1950s and 1960s. He was a distinguished and much loved Secretary of State for Scotland. He carried the title of National Liberal and Conservative. Liberal Members may do well to consider that proper alliance when they are making their frequent pacts with other parties. When I was studying the information on the background of my constituency, I found that I was representing a portion of Renfrewshire for the second time around. My former regional seat of Pollokshaws, which is now a part of Glasgow, was historically a Renfrewshire borough. Renfrew, West and Inverclyde is a beautiful constituency. It is not rugged like some areas in the north of Scotland; its undulations are gentle and they roll down to the Forth of Clyde. All gazetteers euphemistically describe its climate as variable and the many tourists describe it in other ways less euphemistically. The industry in the area that I represent is limited. There are small industrial estates, but the bulk of the industry is on the periphery of the constituency, and it is there that my constituents work as well as in the major towns of Glasgow and Paisley. The principal industry   within the constituency is agriculture, and the major portion of it is devoted to dairying, followed by sheep, pigs, poultry and some arable land. The constituency consists of some beautiful villages with rustic industry traditions. These have almost grown out of themselves and have become village towns. There is a need for these towns, as they are virtually, to be supported by stronger infrastructures. I aim to be as assiduous in my attempts to gain these requirements for my constituents as the Member who represented the constituency previously. The major towns in the constituency are Gourock and Greenock, representing a major area in Scotland for tourism. It is an area that we know in the north as ""doon the watter."" It is from this part of the watter that we take off for many of the islands that are in the Firth of Clyde. Erskine is a new town which is thriving and developing. It has benefited considerably from the introduction of the previous Conservative Government's legislation, which gave council house tenants the right to buy their own homes. Linwood is also in the constituency. It is a town that is known for its problems in the past, including high unemployment. Even there there are signs of recovery. Defence is of great importance to my constituency in both conventional and nuclear terms. As the crow flies, the constituency is 10 km from the Coulport base and less than 5 km from the Polaris base. The royal ordnance factory at Bishopton is a major employer in my constituency. It is the largest producer of propellants for use in gun ammunition, rockets and guided weapons in the United Kingdom. It is the sole United Kingdom manufacturer of combustible charge containers. It is sad that trade union prejudices made it difficult to convirce the work force within RAF Bishopton that their prospects need not and would not be jeopardised by the application of some commercial principles to the running of the works. The livelihood of many of my constituents is dependent on the retention of shipyards, especially in Greenock. There is a need for orders, especially of conventional submarines. Such orders are needed urgently, especially for the type 2400 submarines, which I believe are in the pipeline. I ask my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State to consider an acceleration of the programme for spending on conventional submarines and to consider giving a fair share of the contracts to my constituency. I ask also for a fair share of the maintenance work which the yards are competent to undertake. The constituency needs the work, for it is an area of high unemployment. There are many who sit on the Opposition Benches who find themselves in a dilemma when the argument is raised of whether we should employ people in the defence industry. The industry is a major employer in my constituency and I have no qualms about it, and nor do my constituents, who deal in realities. My constituents also deal with realities in a wider sphere and, like them, I welcome the Government's increased expenditure on both conventional and nuclear forces. I believe that the Government have got their priorities right in maintaining the deterrent principle, safeguarding national security and upholding our commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. That Alliance would be severely weakened without Britain's support, for strategically Britain's role is vital to the defence of the West. It is therefore essential to have the most efficient, up-to-date and effective system that we  can afford to achieve that sound deterrence. I welcome especially the Government's move to go ahead with the Trident 2-D5 system. Defence was a key issue in the election, especially in my constituency. I believe that I was elected on the strength of the arguments on defence which were advanced by myself on behalf of the Conservative party. I repudiated the claims of the CND and all the followers of one-sided disarmament, and I believe that that assisted me in my efforts to be elected. In general, the British electorate saw off the principles advocated by the CND and the unilateralists. It lent its support to the Government's defence strategy and it is continuing to support what the Government are doing. Indeed, it is urging the Government to continue along the same lines. People are prepared to pay for the independent nuclear deterrent. The clear-cut deterrent principle is widely accepted, especially in my constituency. I am happy to see the Government retain their commitment to the preservation of peace through their independent deterrent.
