gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing you for the first time, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I am conscious of the feelings of trepidation which, no doubt, many hon. Members arid, perhaps, even some right hon. Members as well will remember from the days when they made their first speeches here, and I must ask for the indulgence of the House. It is particularly a pleasure to me to intervene for the first time in a debate of this sort, because my predecessor in representing the Stroud division, Sir Robert Perkins, very often spoke in such debates, for he interested himself especially in the problems of the Air Force and of the Territorial Army. I have a special pleasure also in following the right hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Stokes), because, during my time in the Forces during the war I used to read with considerable interest of his efforts to make life safer for me. I welcome the fact that it has proved possible to lighten to some extent the burden of National Service on the country. I do not believe that the call-up actually bears hardly on individuals, especially those who are lucky enough to go abroad and serve with units on active service. I believe that the Report which the Ministry of Labour and National Service published recently proves that the   call up, however unwelcome personally, does not actually do very much harm to the individuals concerned. It is, of course, otherwise for the nation as a whole. The very large military establishments and the large number of Regulars tied down in training National Service men and the comparatively short time of the military efficiency of National Service men, even with two years' service, must mean that, militarily speaking, this is an inefficient way of protecting the country. I also welcome the methods which are now to be employed. I am quite certain that it is essential at present that the two-year period should be continued, because almost half of every active unit, at least in the Service which makes greatest use of National Service men, is based on officers, N.C.O.s and men who are completing the last six months or so of their service. If they are taken away, the efficiency of the Army certainly will be affected. It is also mathematically clear that the present system proposed by the Government cannot indefinitely continue, because in two or three years' time the age of those called up under the system of three call-ups a year rather than four will rise to an unacceptable height. It will be necessary to adopt some other solution unless the numbers in the Forces are to be allowed to rise to their present level. It is not appropriate to speculate now on what will happen in two or three years' time. It is certain that if we can increase the number of Regulars we shall very largely remove some of the most difficult problems. I should like to consider for a moment whether enough use is made of the existing manpower in the Regular Forces. It is common ground, and my right hon. and learned Friend the Minister of Defence said so today, that we cannot look forward to transporting, and if we could transport we probably could not maintain, massive divisions, armed with the most modern weapons, for a long period in a foreign land. Therefore, some of our troops would have to be more lightly equipped than has hitherto been thought necessary for first-line troops. It seems to me, therefore, that the administrative tail can be easily cut, and that a  little more can be done in that direction than has been done hitherto. If the equipment is to be lighter and more easily transportable it should also be very much simpler, and that should enable us to cut the number employed on maintaining equipment. Nobody who has had experience of trying to make military wireless sets work, in places where they are expected to work, and has had experience of trying to teach people to make them work, would disagree that if years ago we had had push-button wireless sets such as the Americans had had for a long period, the time employed in training men would have been much shorter and the work much simpler. I think that civilian employees could also be used less wastefully than they are at present. The Minister said that he was looking into that matter. I hope that he will also consider handing over suitable dumps and depots to civilian contractors, who are better equipped to handle labour and other problems than are the Services themselves. Are the war establishments of the fighting units pruned down as much as possible? I well remember that during the war it was my duty as a staff officer to recommend from time to time an increase in establishment—an officer here and two or three men there—and I scarcely remember a time when I did not write an extremely convincing brief which obtained the results that were sought. It is much easier to argue for one's own unit than to criticise from outside, but at the end of the war all who had been doing that had brought about the result that establishments generally were far too lavish and bigger than they should be, perhaps not on the American scale but very like it. I remember that the unit in which I served took prisoner the opposing German formation. Our unit was commanded by a major who had the captains, lieutenants, second-lieutenants and sergeants and even the batmen that their ranks demanded. The opposing unit was commanded by a sergeant-major, and observing from the opposite side of the hill I never noticed that their performance was less efficient than ours. I am aware of the danger of having expensive aeroplanes lying about for a long time doing nothing whilst waiting to be used for air trooping, and it might   well be considered whether, in conjunction with air charter companies, something might be done so that aeroplanes might be used by civilians when they are not required by troops. Increasing the Regular members of the forces is perhaps a more stubborn problem. Pay and allowances have been mentioned and are under consideration at present. I am sure that the education allowance will be of benefit but I feel that any increase in pay must be substantial, otherwise the forces will feel only that they have been brought back to parity with those in industry. On the question of conditions generally and accommodation in particular, I agree respectfully with the right hon. Member for Ipswich. In many cases accommodation is deplorable. I know that there have been difficulties in the past but I do not know that a great deal is now being done. One must expect conditions to be uncomfortable in small stations abroad, but I was recently in Malta which has been a military station for over 150 years and I found that the married quarters there were quite insufficient in number and lower in quality than they should be. Recently a famous regiment went to a very deserted part of the world. I am told that it had ninety-seven married families, and that when it arrived at the station it was found that only six married quarters were provided. It was hardly surprising that a great many wanted to give up and refuse to go out. I am sure that the Secretary of State for War recognises the regiment to which I am referring. It is necessary to consider money, of course, in this matter of providing quarters, but could we not use the breathing space which the atom bomb has given us to divert money from making conventional weapons to improving accommodation and bringing the conditions in which our troops are required to live up to modern standards of comfort? One could hope in this way to maintain and increase the numbers in the Regular Forces, and perhaps in two or three years' time, when this question is considered again, it might be found less intractable than it is this afternoon. I should like to say a few words about the Territorial Army. I speak as a present serving member with my yeomanry  regiment in Gloucestershire. I welcome wholeheartedly the Government's proposal for a very large measure of voluntary service for the Territorial Army. This proposal came in the nick of time. I do not want to fight too long a battle already won, but in case the policy is reversed at any time I want to go on record as saying that, in the country, where establishments are small and widely scattered, the Territorial Army was on the point of breaking down. We had not the instructors and accommodation required, and the system was not working. If the prevailing conditions had continued for three or four years more, the Territorial Army in the country districts might have been killed stone dead. There is still an obligation to serve twenty days, and I ask with some temerity whether that requirement is really worth while. We understand that it is not the primary purpose of the Territorial Army to produce reserves for the Regular Army at the present time and twenty days is not very long. It amounts only to one camp and two weekends. I presume that the year chosen will be the year after the National Service man has been discharged from the Forces. If that is so, it is the wrong year to choose because that is probably the only year in his whole career in which he does not need a refresher, whereas three years later it might be of great value. There are one or two other considerations. It is natural that a National Service man who comes for a short time to a unit where he has never been before and probably never will be again, should not have much loyalty or esprit de corps. It may also be the case that as a stranger he will have to perform in those fourteen days the less agreeable jobs which are not necessarily military but have to be done. Hon. Members know the kind of jobs I mean. So he may get an even worse impression from his fourteen days than he might otherwise have got. Also I believe that the expense, the paper work and the kitting out involved in that fourteen days might be considerable, and I wonder whether it would not now be better to make a clean sweep. Of course the sixty days' service obviously produces more valuable results, and I dare say that ought to stay. I venture to suggest that the proposals of the Government represent an important step forward in the efficiency of the forces and in relief of our industrial manpower, and in the light of the foreign situation today I do not think the country can ask for more.
