gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My chief feeling is of envy of my hon. Friend the Member for Harrow, Central (Mr. Grant) and the hon. Member for Sunderland, South (Mr. Bagier) and of the relief which they must be feeling at having got through their first speeches in the House. It is a great privilege to be making my maiden speech and to be making it on a subject of such importance. I believe that this should not be a controversial subject, but it is one, and I realise that in making my maiden speech on it I may be infringing the rules which maiden speakers are supposed to keep. I believe that there are areas in the country where all three types of schools—secondary modern, grammar and comprehensive—can work very well for the community. Equally, I believe there are areas where the comprehensive system on its own may be best. It may well be that this applies to Sunderland, South, and I should like to discuss this with the hon. Member for Sunderland, South on some future occasion. But I also believe that there are areas where this does not apply and where the grammar schools and secondary modern schools, and not comprehensive schools, are the best answer for the neighbourhood. It is because I represent such a constituency that I am making my maiden speech on this subject. Before turning to the subject of the debate, however, I should like to follow custom and pay a tribute to my predecessor. It must be a rather sad one, because, as hon. Members know, Sir Beverley Baxter did not live to enjoy his well-earned retirement, or even to complete his term of office in the House. I have not been surprised, in the short time that I have been here, to learn that he was well-liked and respected by hon. Members on both sides. He was also much loved in his constituency, of which he was a freeman and which he represented for nearly 30 years. He held views sometimes different from those of his own party, but he always held them sincerely. He came to this country as one of the Canadians who came to fight in the First World War and he remained to make his mark, as I know from personal experience, as one of the great journalists of his day, and his writings aroused much interest on both sides of the Atlantic. Since, unfortunately, he was ill for a considerable time before his death, it seems a long time since Southgate had a speaker in the House. Therefore, I would like for a moment to refresh hon. Members' memories about Southgate. Southgate lies to the north of London. It is a residential suburb, at present in the county of Middlesex but, as from 1st April, to be part of the new Greater London Council, and also on the same day to become part of the larger borough of Enfield. We are bordered on the north by the Green Belt, an area about which we hold very strong views and which we should hate to see altered in  any way. To the south, the North Circular Road runs across the constituency. At this point, it is, perhaps, at its narrowest, and plans are in hand to widen it. I hope that the Minister of Transport will be able to carry these plans out fairly soon. We have other traffic problems—for instance, lorry routes through streets normally intended purely for residential areas. There are about 25,000 houses in the borough, and many of our people commute to London by tube. But, of course, they spend their leisure hours in Southgate, and we are fortunate in having many cultural facilities available, including a live theatre. We are particularly proud of our technical college, which was officially opened only in July last year by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for St. Marylebone (Mr. Hogg). We have two grammar schools and three secondary modern schools. For our grammar schools there are, each year, twice as many applications as there are places, and in the last two years numbers in the sixth forms have doubled. Our grammar schools have 80 per cent. successes in A-levels, and most of these pupils go on to universities or similar institutions. Over 300 pupils at our three secondary modern schools took the G.C.E. last year. It is of interest also that 12 pupils from one of them transferred at sixth form level to one of the grammar schools last year. I am glad to say that one of these schools, like Harrow, had a mock election shortly before the General Election, but, probably because the candidates themselves were not invited but pupils were chosen, it correctly forecast the result of the General Election in Southgate. If the comprehensive system were to be initiated in Southgate, where would it begin and how would it work? Where would the buildings be? No one will suggest that new school buildings would be built. The cost would be prohibitive and the land is not available. But, if two or three of the existing schools were joined together and called one comprehensive school, that would not be a step in the right direction. I believe that, in Southgate, parents want to have a choice as to what sort of school to send their children to, and I remain at this moment completely unconvinced that the imposition of schools of that kind would bring the backward pupils forward rather than cause the   clever ones to suffer. I believe, also, that the secondary modern schools are perfectly arranged for the less bright pupils, who receive encouragement and achieve positions in them which they would never be able to attain in comprehensive schools. I am frightened also of the danger of larger classes. If we were to do anything in this direction, we should certainly be putting the clock back. The personal approach in school teaching is invaluable. Speedy recognition of the pupil by the master makes all the difference to the pupil's confidence. In a school where one master is teaching the same subject to several streams, it is very difficult, and it takes a long time, for him to get to know his pupils, and the older they become the more important it is for them to be known in that way. The Plowden Report will be out soon, and I hope that it will make recommendations changing the age of selection from 11 to 12, or even to 13. I hope, however, that before they make any major decisions, the Government will consider the whole subject most carefully. I hope that they will have second thoughts after this debate and institute a thorough inquiry so that places like Southgate, where, I believe, the comprehensive system would be thoroughly wrong, may have their best interests taken into account. I am sure that the Government ought to have such an inquiry before imposing the comprehensive system, and, in particular, that they should consult the masters concerned before doing any such thing. This debate has covered many wider points, but I have tried to concentrate mainly on my own constituency. I believe that we in Southgate represent an important cross-section of an urban community, and I ask the Minister to consider the points which I have raised. It has been a great privilege to address the House for the first time, and I much appreciate the way in which I have been received. It is not our lives that we are talking about today. It is the lives of our children and our grandchildren, and it is no small matter to tamper with their future.
