gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to second the Motion. I am deeply sensible of the high honour which has been conferred upon the constituency of Doncaster in that I should have been chosen to second the Motion. I am also very conscious of the fact that this occasion is the first time I have had the privilege of addressing the House at all. Doncaster is a town well renowned for its railways and for its racing, though the movements of the trains are, fortunately, more predictable than those of the horses. Throughout the war and in the difficult years of recovery the railwaymen of Doncaster struggled valiantly not only to play their part in winning the war and to make un the leeway caused by that war, but also to provide a service for the travelling public which was both efficient and safe, and, when all the differences of the various political   parties are cast aside, I believe it is true to say that the railwaymen have had a particularly difficult task. I hope I am right when I conclude that the fact that I have been asked to second this Motion is a tribute to the efforts of all men and women throughout the whole country who earn their living on the railways. But Doncaster is more than a mere great railway centre. It is also the hub of the South Yorkshire coalfield, and as such the prosperity and indeed the whole future of Doncaster depends to a very considerable extent upon the prosperity of the coal industry. One of the most vital, and certainly one of the most difficult, tasks which confront this new Government will be to try substantially to increase the output of coal, and in consultation with the National Coal Board and with the miners' unions I believe that much can be done. Today, the General Assembly of the United Nations is meeting in Paris, and I am sure that the whole House will join with me in wishing well to the efforts there of the new Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He has taken over at a time which I think it is fair to say is acknowledged by all to be one of very considerable difficulty, and whatever differences of opinion we may hold with regard to the method of conducting our foreign relations, I am sure it is true to say that the ultimate aim of each one of us is to reach that twin goal of a lasting peace and of the maintenance of those rights to which Great Britain is not only legally but also morally entitled. In order to achieve that goal there are, in my humble submission, three pillars on which we should build our plan for peace. In the first place we must pursue a foreign policy which is not only consistent but which is clearly known throughout the world. To carry out a policy, however definite, which is not fully understood by the rest of the world is to encourage the taking of risks by those States who lust for even greater power and so ultimately to court disaster. Throughout the Middle East, to which my hon. Friend the Member for Banbury (Mr. Dodds-Parker) has referred, we are faced with the most serious troubles. Indecision at this time could have only one result, and that would be to tempt  further those who do not see fit to honour their lawful obligations. For that reason it is particularly welcome to hear in the Gracious Speech such a clear statement of British policy with regard to the unhappy events which are now taking place in Egypt The second pillar on which we must build our plan for peace is, I hope, self-evident. It is to negotiate from strength and not from weakness. Nothing would be more fatal to the cause of peace than that this country should be lulled and tempted into the fallacy of believing it is no longer necessary to strengthen our defences. It is an unpalatable fact, but none the less a true one, that those States behind the Iron Curtain with whom we are pleased to negotiate are not always impressed with mere justice and reason. Indeed, experience has proved that the Soviet Union neither respects nor understands the rule of law when divorced from the power of enforcement. There can be little hope of a lasting settlement with the Soviet Union unless the free countries of the world can talk with a background of, at any rate, equality of power. To strengthen our defences must inevitably mean sacrifices in other directions, but those sacrifices will be as nought compared with the ones we should have to suffer if the world were once again plunged into the miseries of war. One blow from those who relish our doom and our great social services would be mutilated beyond recognition, and the last hope of a rising standard of living would vanish overnight. The blunt fact is that we cannot risk the consequences of neglecting to strengthen our defences; and I venture to say that such a policy will have the overwhelming support of the majority of the British nation. The third and final pillar on which we must build is to work in the very closest co-operation with our allies. The British Commonwealth is often regarded as a single entity and, in one sense, no doubt that is true. But it is a dangerous conception if it is thereby assumed that the unity of the Commonwealth can be effective without frequent consultation. The Commonwealth consists of many peoples not only geographically distant but also differing in some respects in their approach to international relations, and it is therefore of the utmost importance   that deliberate steps should be taken to make even stronger the bonds which now hold together members of the British Commonwealth. That Commonwealth is not a static system of States, but a dynamic system which is growing and developing all the time. As with our other allies, so equally with the Commonwealth we must grasp every possible opportunity to work together in the closest consultation and harmony and in furtherance of our common purpose. Similar considerations apply to our relations with the United States of America. The Soviet Union has made it a fundamental rule of its foreign policy to exploit the slightest antagonism which may, on the surface, appear to exist between the United States and ourselves. The only answer to such tactics is for Great Britain and the United States to attain the most intimate understanding on all matters of mutual concern to our two countries. We can have no possible doubt whatever but that the United States will continue to welcome such an approach. Whether we look to the East or to the West, the future peace of the world depends upon maintaining and extending that unity of purpose and common design which exists between the free nations of Europe, the British Commonwealth and Empire, and the United States of America. In no way does that conception conflict with our resolve to make the United Nations a reality. We threaten no one; but without unity and frank co-operation we shall not be strong, and without strength we shall not preserve the peace. With unity, with adequate defences economically administered, and with a clear and consistent foreign policy I believe that Great Britain can rise to a respected position of inestimable value to the cause of peace and can once again take her rightful place in the councils of the world.
