gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with trepidation, but none the less with a sense of very great honour, that I address the House for the first time, and, in customary form, ask for its indulgence. First, I pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir Patrick Bishop, whom I am so proud to follow. He was held in highest esteem and affection, not only by all his constituents whom he served so loyally for 14 years, but also by his many friends in this House. I do not believe any new Member could have had greater help, kindness and advice from his predecessor than I have had from Sir Patrick. The reason for his retirement was ill-health. All his friends in this House and elsewhere will be glad to know that he is now enjoying good health and, I believe, enjoying his retirement. I am particularly pleased to speak in this debate, because many members of my family have been engaged in one form or another of education. On one occasion,   I asked a cynical member of the family to define education for me. She said that it was the art of casting fake pearls before real swine. We have moved a long way from that conception. I hope that the Minister will feel with equal passion as I do that education is no longer a technical means of providing someone with a job but is a continuing process which goes, on throughout the life of the persons concerned. It is natural that in Harrow we should be concerned and interested in education. Within our boundaries is a famous school, which may not provide so many members of the Front Bench opposite as another school, whose name escapes me for the moment, but which is renowned throughout the world as the place where a great man, on whom our thoughts are very properly focussed tonight, received his education. Harrow is also proud of all its other educational institutions. We have no comprehensive school there, but we have 10 independent grammar schools, eight maintained schools, including two Roman Catholic voluntary aided schools, one most notable direct-grant school, 12 secondary modern schools, a great number of primary, infant and independent preparatory schools. This wide range of educational establishments is rendering a very fine service to the children of Harrow and to the community at large, but many members of the local authority in Harrow, many parents and many of those concerned in education, are quite genuinely concerned and alarmed at the policy of the Government. They fear that this policy will disrupt a system which has worked very well, and is serving the community well, and that it will be replaced by a system which to a large extent is still unproved. Although we do not deny that this system is very appropriate in many parts of the country, we do not feel that it is applicable everywhere or that it should be imposed in a district where the present system is working extremely well. We are very proud in Harrow of our grammar schools, which are first-class and which provide students who achieve the highest possible scholastic attainments. No doubt hon. Members will have seen last week in the Daily Telegraph, in the list of university awards,  that the names of Harrow grammar schools figured very highly. Tonight, however, I refer particularly to secondary modern schools in the constituency. From what the Minister said, there appeared to be an idea that we on this side of the House were not so strongly in support of secondary modern education. I can tell him that the 12 secondary modern schools in Harrow are very fine schools which are doing great work. All of them run G.C.E. O-level courses, and the proportion of pupils who pass averages 57 per cent. Approximately one-fifth stay on after the statutory leaving age. I do not believe, however, that schools can be measured in academic terms alone. Sometimes we overstress the academic results. Shortly before the General Election I addressed the pupils, boys and girls, of a secondary modern school in my constituency on political subjects. They were all pupils who had failed to gain entrance to a grammar school. I was most impressed, not only by their courtesy and ease of manner, but by the very intelligent, searching questions and comments. I wish I could remember them all, because I could make use of them as Questions on the Order Paper. Shortly after this, the school held a mock election. I regret to inform the House that the Labour Party won it. That was no doubt because of my advocacy, but I was able to redress the balance somewhat in the actual General Election. Those pupils were playing their parts in extra-curricula activities and were developing initiative and leadership from which they would probably have been inhibited if they had been herded under the same roof with academically sharper contemporaries in a comprehensive school. This point about extra-curricula activities is confirmed by the Newsom Report, which examined these activities from the point of view of average pupils in comprehensive and secondary modern schools. It came to the conclusion that the children would have had a much smaller chance of reaching a position of authority or playing for a school team if they went to a comprehensive school. No doubt that is because they would have still been in the middle school. Confidence among children is very important. It produces leaders and   responsible citizens. It is something which may be lost if one is in a large organisation. In anticipation of making this speech, as a nervous new Member, I could not help cherishing the wish that we were less comprehensively organised in this House so that the less experienced and less fluent speakers such as myself would not be overawed by the brilliance of the Front Benches. There is sometimes a substantial advantage in being a big fish in a small pool rather than a small fish in a big pool. The danger is that some comprehensive schools may become such large pools that quite big fish may be lost. Another point is discipline in schools—I realise that this is an unfashionable word and that we do not wish to go back to the days of Dotheboys Hall and Tom Brown. But we have perhaps allowed the pendulum to swing a little too far the other way. I believe that the problem of discipline, which is so necessary in schools if our children are to take advantage of them, is aggravated rather than relieved by increasing the size of the school and the number of children under one roof. I am also sure that far too much blame for the misbehaviour of children is laid on the shoulders of teachers and far too little blame on the shoulders of the parents. The principle of separation, to which the Secretary of State is so much opposed and on which I disagree with him entirely, because I believe that it is necessary, need not be rigid. I agree with many of the Secretary of State's criticisms of the 11-plus method of selection. I understand only too well the frustrations of the rejects and the irritations that this causes, but it is flying in the face of reality to suppose that some sort of selection can be dispensed with or, as is very well brought out in an article by Mr. Burston in The Times Educational Supplement, that comprehensive schools themselves do not involve selection of some sort, albeit that it is under one roof. I believe that selection can be flexible. I disagree entirely with the Secretary of State, who seemed to approve the notion that it is an illusion that there can be an examination at 11 with the possibility of transfer later from one school to another. There are many possibilities. It is flexible. In Harrow we use what we  call the collegiate system. This is where one grammar and two secondary modern schools group together. After the first two years there are consultations, as a result of which they may recommend and effect the transfer of one pupil from one school to another. The same procedure takes place at sixth form level. A most notable example which disputes the Minister's view on this point is that of a boy who failed his 11-plus. He did not make any particular mark at his secondary modern school for the first two or three years, but he developed and matured later. Under this system he was able to transfer at sixth form level to grammar school. From there he attained entry into Dartmouth and has been able to follow a distinguished career subsequent to that. On a different aspect of transfer, only the other day I was harangued at considerable length by a young man of 13 with a high piping voice but in very fluent and well informed terms as to why my party lost the last election. I shall, of course, convey his views to my right hon. Friends. I am glad to say that he forecast that we shall win the next election, for very good reasons. This little boy has gone to the Harrow public school, having started with no monetary advantage at home. He comes from a humble but worthy home with no advantages. Entirely by his own abilities he has translated himself from his State school to the Harrow public school. I do not believe that we should be dogmatic as to which form selection should take, but we must face the necessity of some sort of selection. I am certain that it is wise, although this may irritate the Minister, to await the result of the Plowden Report on this point. Hon. Members opposite in particular will appreciate that selectivity aids especially more able children who come from humble and sometimes very undesirable homes, because it enables them to be lifted from their environment and by the spur of competition they can achieve much greater attainment. I know that hon. Members opposite hold quite sincerely to the view that there is some form of social barrier in the present system which is not apparent in the comprehensive system. This is a valid point. None the less, I command them to the very tragic letter, published in, I   think, the New Statesman, by a man who states that this has not been his experience and that in some circumstances putting large numbers of children under one roof can exasperate rather than relieve those social tensions and barriers which hon. Members genuinely wish to see swept away. The broad view of educationists on this issue is that perhaps the comprehensive system raises the academic level of the ordinary child but at the same time it tends to lower the level of the brighter child. [HON. MEMBERS: ""No.""] This is a view which has been put to me by educationists. None the less, it is a dilemma. We must ask ourselves whether we want to move towards the common mean or whether we wish to encourage outstanding ability. In view of changed world circumstances, ever increasing competition from abroad, the fact that we are in a dynamic scientific age, and the fact that the only natural resources of this country are the brains and enterprise of our people, I have no doubt that our educational system should be geared to give free rein to the qualities of enterprise, ability and brains, rather than to doctrinaire egalitarianism. I am grateful to the House for its indulgence and for the privilege of being able to take part in a debate which is so important not only to our children but to the future of the nation as a whole.
