gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I want to put to the House one or two points that occur to a countryman on studying this Bill, and I hope that I may have the kindly tolerance that the House always shows to a Member who is making his first speech. In moving the Second Reading, the Home Secretary told us that there were about a dozen regulations affecting food production which would be continued for five years under this Bill as it stands. It is really remarkable, knowing the country, how tolerantly the war-time regulations and controls have been accepted and how smoothly they have worked. In the country, the master and the man on the farm, and the neighbours in the village know each other as human beings, and I think that our relationships are always rather closer than those which generally obtain in the towns. I think that controls were more irksome to us perhaps, than to some townspeople, but they have worked, and out of the many thousands of directions which have been served on farmers, to plough grass fields, to grow extra potatoes, to grow wheat and so on, very few have been disputed; they have been carried out loyally and they have been carried out successfully. But let the country make no mistake. The achievements in additional food production have not been due to orders. If I may give one instance, in the county of Berkshire, part of which I have the honour to represent, the acreage of wheat has been doubled, the acreage of potatoes has been increased fourfold, and the milk production has also increased despite the war difficulties. That has been done by the team work of the whole of the farming community. The leading farmers, the leading representatives of the farm workers and the landowners, have given their time and experience freely on the war agricultural committees in order to get this increased production. It is thanks to them, rather than to any orders which were made under the Defence Regulations, or to be made under this Bill, that the country has got and will get the food it wants. During the war years there was a 70 per cent. increase in food production. As the Home Secretary reminded us in his speech, we need to maintain that production for some years to come, and therefore it is vital that we should maintain the team spirit which obtained for us this greatly increased production. For five years of the war it was my privilege to serve as one of the liaison officers of the late Minister of Agriculture with the war agricultural committees. I think that my right hon. Friend the Member for Southport (Mr. R. S. Hudson) has earned the lasting respect and gratitude of the country for the energy and drive that he put behind the work of those committees. He was tireless in travelling about the country; sometimes he was rather exhausting, and it is not surprising perhaps that at the height of the ploughing-up campaign the farmers of Somerset dubbed him ""Rob the Ruthless."" But that phase has passed. I sense in the agricultural districts now some reaction. Members of the war agricultural committees—the men who operate the powers which this Bill will continue for five years—are getting tired; many of them have served right through the war years, and given three or four days of their time each week freely to this work. Some want to retire. Some members of the committees' staffs are looking around for other jobs which they think will be more permanent. There is a real danger of this team spirit being lost, and no amount of regulations will get this country the food it must have if we are unable to keep the team spirit going between the farmers, the farm workers. owners and all concerned with the job of food production. I pray that the present Minister of Agriculture will not rely on these regulations but will see to it that the farming community knows the facts about the present food supplies and knows what the prospects are. If he puts the case fairly and squarely to them and asks for their full co-operation I am certain he will get the response that the country wants. There are some changes needed in the structure and the functions of the war agricultural committees. There is nothing in this Bill which will stop the Minister making those changes, some of which should be made now. The Minister has already promised to review the possibility of setting up appeal tribunals to consider cases where a farmer is faced with dispossession. He was repeating a promise made by his predecessor, and I hope very much that will be done now. There are other changes which would bring the farming community itself into even closer relationship with the essential work of the committees, giving them even fuller responsibility. We know that the new Minister did a good job during the war as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, and he has the good wishes of all of us regardless of party. I hope he will be more successful in getting the full co-operation of his Cabinet colleagues in framing a post-war agricultural policy than his predecessor was in getting support from the Labour Members of the Coalition Government. I support this Bill as a temporary measure to give the Minister of Agriculture time to re-fashion our agricultural administration in such a way that the country will have the prosperous and efficient agriculture it wants, and that those who live by the land—the farmers, the farm workers and the owners—if they do their job properly, will be able to count on a fair reward.
