gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In craving the indulgence of the House, I realise the inadequacy with which I fill the place of my predecessor, Sir Fergus Graham, who first came into this House about thirty years ago and who was, I expect, as well loved here as he certainly was in Darlington. I should like to add to the chorus of praise for the Bill a word of thanks on behalf of those who, like myself, have for many years had to struggle on planning committees and, latterly National Park committees with the intricacy of the caravan problem. I had not intended to try to catch your eye, Mr. Speaker, until I received a letter from my town clerk this morning asking me to raise a point which has been raised already in the debate. The Borough of Darlington has no major problem concerning caravans. We have two caravan sites. Thanks to the inhabitants of the caravans, the site operators and the borough council, they are well conducted and present no great problem. The aspect of the Bill to which I should like to make a further reference is the question of dual control, which was raised first by the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, Central (Dr. Stross). My right hon. Friend the Minister has said something about it already and the hon. Member for Deptford (Sir L. Plummer) has come back to it. Unless I am much mistaken, it seems to me that there is here a rather new principle. There is a widening of the factors which a planning authority can, and should, take into account before granting planning approval. Previously, as I have always understood, the Ministry has insisted that planning permissions must relate to planning considerations only and that they must not be used as a kind of universal longstop. In a borough, the planning authority and the public health authority are the same body, but they are different people in the counties, such as in my neighbouring county. If the two applications still have to come in, but the public health authority has no option but to grant a licence, surely the planning authority, before it grants planning permission, must take into account considerations of public health. That is something new. It may be a good thing to extend the powers of planning authorities, but if that is to be so in this case, there could well be other cases. There could be the case of somebody applying for planning permission to put up a building which, on planning grounds, was not objectionable, but which did not conform to the building regulations. In that case, the planning approval is given, but if the building does not conform with the building regulations it is somebody else's job to shoot it down. I will not labour the point, because I am sure that it has been ventilated sufficiently, but since I have been fortunate enough to be called, I should like to refer to Clause 18 (5) and the   question of compulsory purchase. I realise that I must be careful, because there are aspects of this matter which tend to be controversial. Many people, certainly outside this House, take the view that compulsory purchase is an unmitigated modern evil. I am precluded tonight from saying whether I consider it evil, but it is certainly not modern. It has always seemed to me that what worries the victim is not the compulsion, but the compensation. In the long history of compulsory purchase procedure, there are certain leading cases and it seems to me that what we should always bear in mind is that we should follow the best procedure. If I might remind the House of a leading case which I have always thought one of the more helpful, it was an early one, the case of Ahab v. Naboth in the matter of the vineyard. I have always thought that posterity has done rather less than justice to the reputation of King Ahab, because, although that affair had an unsatisfactory ending, up to the time when Ahab committed the criminal folly of allowing his wife to meddle in politics, his conduct of the negotiations was quite impeccable and could well serve as a model for us today. Students of the First Book of Kings will recall the circumstances. There was to be a redevelopment plan for the palace area. I do not know whether the king was under pressure from the members of his council who were complaining about the inadequacy of the accommodation provided for them in the royal palace. Be that as it may, in the plan was included a suggestion for a herb garden within the curtilege. Unfortunately, the only site which the planners considered possible was already occupied by the vineyard. It is important to remember that Ahab did not act in any arbitrary manner. He did not serve a demolition order. He did not even send a planning officer. Believing in personal contact and negotiation, he went himself. While we do not have verbatim minutes of the meeting, we know roughly what took place. It was something like this. Ahab must have explained about the development plan and the necessity for a herb garden. He would have pointed out, no doubt, that in an affluent society with an increasing standard of living, such a thing had become almost a necessity. If we consider that there were to be not only culinary, but medicinal, herbs, the garden could, perhaps, have been claimed to be essential in the interests of public health. However, he discovered not what Naboth felt about the rising standard of living—we do not know about that. For my part, I am sometimes a little affrighted when people talk about doubling the standard of living, because I often find it extremely difficult to afford my present standard. What we know is that Naboth was an unwilling seller. He said that the place had been in his family for generations and that he did not want to part with it. The offer that was made was absolutely clear. What Ahab said was, ""If you will give me your vineyard, I will give you a better vineyard or the worth of it in money."" Thereafter, the story becomes less satisfactory and the ""framing"" of Naboth in the courts and his subsequent liquidation is, obviously, something which nobody nowadays would consider satisfactory, at least on this side of the Iron Curtain. I hope most sincerely that wherever in future, as in the past—it will often happen—Governments, central or local, find it necessary to invade and restrict the freedom of the individual to secure the freedom and justifiable aspirations of the many, in such cases where the individual, for sentimental or other good reason, is unwilling to sell, the Ahab rule shall apply and the individual shall be offered a better vineyard, be it ever so little better, or the worth of it in money. I am most grateful to the House for its indulgence.
