gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a keen sense of humility, Mr. Speaker, that I rise to crave your indulgence and the indulgence of the House for the first time. I hope and trust that the plea which I shall make will not in any way tax the traditional tolerance and courtesy of the House, for I want to make a plea for people who are in great trouble and for whom, however urgent are the overall economic matters of the entire world and of this nation, something must be done. My plea is for those who have been hardest hit by the rising cost of living and are least able to fend for themselves. I refer to all classes of pensioners. To name a few of them, there are the old age pensioners, who face the coming winter with the greatest trepidation and fear, disabled war pensioners, many of whom are in   little better position, and war widows. some of whom face a desperate future because of the tremendous rise in the cost of living. I appreciate, as I am sure everyone does, the great difficulties which face my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer at such a time of national and international crisis, and the call for help is doubly difficult to meet when the need is not to spend more but to spend less. However, the British people would not think well of any Government which shirked its responsibilities in this matter, and I feel that it may be possible for us to do something for these people, who, after all, have done much for us. They are worthy people. In my constituency many of the aged people are the mothers and fathers of those who went to sea during the last war, and many of them went to sea themselves during the first world war. They are people who have given many years of sterling service to the nation on the Norfolk agricultural land. In the main, they have strived very hard throughout to make something of their lives. They are a thrifty people in Norfolk, but their thrift has been set at naught, and in the main they have no savings left because of the rise in the cost of living. Though one may argue that it is wise to encourage thrift in people so that it is not necessary to go to their aid with money, when people have been thrifty but their thrift has been set at naught by the depredations of the fall in the value of money, something must surely be done to alleviate their plight. I wonder how it will be possible to help. Is it not a matter of priorities, and have we not perhaps got some of our priorities a little mixed? There has been reference to housing. Surely the housing priority is for simple decent homes rather than lavish houses. There has been talk of education. Surely the priority in education is for more schools and more teachers rather than lavish school buildings with fittings which may not be necessary. The priority in the case of the welfare of pensioners is clear. If the Welfare State is to mean anything, it must mean a State in which all people are encouraged to become thrifty and responsible so that they can look after their own welfare, for if we attempt to do so much  ourselves in respect of welfare and attempt to look after everybody's welfare we shall end by doing what we are doing now, neglecting the very people whose welfare should be of prime importance, those who through no fault of their own are incapable of looking after themselves. Surely something can be done about priorities in order to stop forcing help upon those who ask for no help and would be perfectly happy to look after their own welfare, and proud to look after their own families and their own dependants and future. If we can do something of that nature, surely it will be possible to give urgent help to those who face the winter with great fear. After all, is it not true to say that a great nation has not only to play its part and shoulder its responsibilities in the world at large, but has also to find time to consider the many human problems of its own society?
