gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with great deference that I rise to follow the right hon. Member for Colne Valley (Mr. Glenvil Hall), and I only hope that in this, my first attempt, I may in some slight way emulate his skill. During the past few days we have been discussing the Budget, but it seems to me that after the first stunned amazement with which the Budget was received, very few genuinely constructive criticisms have come from the party opposite. One has been amazed at the spirit in which the Opposition have received this Budget. It almost seems as if they were surprised at the way in which the Chancellor dealt with the situation and wished that his predecessor had done the same in earlier times. The question which struck me directly the Chancellor finished his Budget speech was whether he had been firm enough. During these last months, the country had been gradually worked up through the medium of the Press and by speeches of hon. Members on both sides of the House to the fact that we had to face a very great and severe crisis. I believe that the country was ready to face any great impositions placed upon it. We have had a cut in the subsidies, and I am quite certain that, despite all the opinions of the Opposition, that was a considerable move in the right direction. What I regret is that the Chancellor has not gone further in that direction. During the last few years we have been standing on what might be described as the quick-sands of Socialism. We have to get away from that position and back to a sound economic position. Until we have done away with all subsidies, and until this country stands on a firm basis, I do not see how we can have a continuous move forward. By that I mean that the country should go forward through extra efforts and that extra efforts should be rewarded by reliefs from taxation. As long as these subsidies remain there is always the danger, or so it seems to me, that at perhaps some not so distant date we shall have to take a step backwards in order to do away with them.  This country should now go forward by continuous effort; that effort should be rewarded by relief from taxation, and, in its turn, that relief should encourage extra effort. There is another point I wish to emphasise. It deals not so much with the present crisis, but with what lies ahead of us. It seems to me that there is a very great danger that we may regard the crisis which faces us today as being one which can easily be conquered, and that when it has been overcome, an easy time lies ahead of us. I think the exact opposite is the case, and I wish to emphasise the state of affairs, the seriousness of which will be apparent in the years to come, regarding the population of this country. We know that in a few years' time the wage earners of this country will have to support a large number of aged people. If we look at the Government's review of population for 1947, we find that in every thousand those over 65 number 104, but that by 1977 they will number no fewer than 160. The burden placed upon the wage earners of this country will increase by no less than 50 per cent. Also mentioned in that review is the cost to the Exchequer of retirement pensions. Without making any allowance for any future fall in the mortality rate, the cost is estimated to increase from £238 million in 1948 to £501 million in 1977. This assessment was made before the present rise in the cost of living and before the present increase in pensions. Therefore, in a few years time this country will be faced with a crisis which is likely to overtake the very greatest efforts of the wage earners unless that fact is realised and faced today. While one can but admire the way the Chancellor dealt with the problems of the present one wonders how he intends to deal with this great problem of the future. One cannot encourage this generation to produce more by saying to them, ""Produce more and you will get extra comfort in five or 10 years' time."" They produce more in order to support the greatly increased number of dependents. How is this problem to be solved? The right hon Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan), wants the social services retained intact, but we must consider the enormous implications that that would   involve. We must have regard not so much to the words of the social service legislation as to its intentions. It was the intention of social service legislation originally that every man and woman in this country should be helped from the cradle to the grave by the State. So difficult are the problems that lie in front of us that I think we shall have to consider very shortly whether or not the total aims of the social services should not be reduced and whether, in order to provide security from birth to responsibility and in old age, the full weight of maintaining the health services, without any amelioration, should be laid upon every man and woman during his or her period of full activity. Indeed we may also have to consider the whole question of pensionable age. One thing is certain—that before us lies a crisis which is certain to mount as the years go on. This generation must realise that one cannot hide behind the word ""State,"" for that term in matters of production only means that section of the population which can produce; and upon how much that section of the population can produce depends what the old people and the children can obtain. We must meet this threat to our future. Today's generation must realise that they will be the old age pensioners of the future; and unless we are careful we may by present prodigality endanger future security.
