gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I associate myself with the remarks of the right hon. Member for Down, South (Mr. Powell) when he complimented the hon. Member for Livingston (Mr. Cook) on his lucid explanation of the procedural difficulties confronting the Committee. I have seen the hon. Gentleman demonstrate that ability before. It will serve him well when he is required to put an intellectual veneer on the Labour party. It is plainly necessary for someone who is a novice on taxation also to become an expert in procedural Committee party wrangling. I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his explanation. The alliance faces difficulties because we would have preferred a debate based upon our amendments. We were denied that opportunity because of procedural difficulties. I am told by my Chief Whip that I shall have to become accustomed to the difficult choice between following the Financial Secretary or the hon. Member for Livingston through the Lobby. It is a choice between the red devil and the deep blue sea. I can say with confidence that my colleagues will follow the lesser evil and proceed through the Lobby behind the red devil, the hon. Member for Livingston. You, Mr. Walker, have an unenviable task in identifying about 150 new hon. Members. I am sure that the Government will spare you future difficulties by introducing a sensible electoral system. The first-past-the-post system is as capricious with policies as it is with personalities. If we had a sensible system involving single transferable votes and multi-Member constituencies, you, Mr. Walker, would be spared such difficulties. Although this is my first speech in the Commons, I am no stranger to the precincts of the Palace of Westminster. Thanks to the philanthropy and the assistance of the Joseph Rowntree social service trust, in 1971 I was granted a fellowship that enabled me to serve under my right hon. Friend the Member for Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale (Mr. Steel) in his previous incarnation as the right hon. Member for Roxburgh, Selkirk and Peebles when he was party Whip between 1971 and 1975. I am pleased to be able to return to the House and to renew many valued friendships among hon. Members, Officers of the House and the staff. It is a great pleasure for me to be here. I have the honour to represent an entirely new constituency created by the Boundary Commission, which has at least realised the impossibility of having one parliamentary seat encompassing Hawick and Galashiels in an area that takes its rugby almost as seriously as its religion. It is a relief not to have to make the impossible choice between the two clubs. Since the better team—Hawick—falls to me I have the best of the bargain. My right hon. Friend the Member for Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale may take a different view. The argument will, no doubt, be resolved in the coming seasons on the terraces at Mansfield park and Lauderdale The two districts of Roxburgh and Berwickshire have been represented in Parliament by remarkable men. The late and much lamented John P. Mackintosh represented Berwick district as part of his former constituency of Berwick and East Lothian, before his untimely death in 1978. He was a man who demonstrated eloquence, learning, wit and integrity. His influence and inspiration extended outwith and beyond the reaches of his political party. He was an inspiration to a generation in Scottish politics. The by-election after his death was won by the present hon. Member for East Lothian (Mr. Home Robertson) who has quickly and effortlessly assumed the Mackintosh mantle. He too has a reputation for being honest and sticking to his political beliefs. The Roxburgh district was formerly represented by my right hon. Friend the Member for Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale, who has been a close friend and mentor for 10 years. I look forward to many happy years working with him to further the best interests of the Border area and the country as a whole. 5.30 pm I could rehearse at some length the considerable beauty and history surrounding the former royal burghs and principal towns of Roxburgh and Berwickshire. The principal towns of Roxburgh are Hawick, Jedburgh and Kelso, and of Berwickshire, Eyemouth, Duns, Churnside and Coldstream. But there are great problems in those areas, and rather than rehearse the more romantic aspects of the areas I shall stress the problems that they face. My constituency suffers severely from a combination of two disadvantages. First, because of the Government's stringent cutbacks in the industrial area and through the withdrawal of industrial development status from the Border region in August 1982, industry and commerce suffered a severe blow and are at a considerable disadvantage when trying to attract inward investment. Secondly, the public expenditure cuts have savagely attacked the infrastructure of the Border region. I shall make it my business in the coming years to redress that disadvantage. Similar difficulties are being experienced in light engineering, food processing, paper making and the other small craft industries. The agricultural service and fishing industries have suffered severe economic trauma during recent months and years. In his maiden speech in April 1965, my right hon. Friend the Member for Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale referred to depopulation in the Borders during the census period 1951–1961. I was privileged to serve as a census officer in the Roxburgh district during the 1981 census. It showed a small but significant increase in the overall population of the area. It also showed clearly that there had been a significant decrease in the population in the landward areas of the region. There had been a 6 per cent. increase in the size of populations with 500 souls or more, and a decrease of 11 per cent. in the population in the landward areas. Unless the Government take urgent action, the Border area will suffer a period of rural decline and deprivation. The Scottish Development Agency has done a great deal of good work, but it is not an appropriate vehicle for the area. It has proven its worth in urban areas such as the central industrial belt, but the Government must face the problems of rural development in a different way. I am pleased that both Strathclyde regional council and the Border regional council now agree that we need a new status of development area. A rural development status should be specially drawn up to take account of the real and urgent needs of the area. During the coming weeks and months I shall press for such an agency. I wish to say a few words about the business before the Committee. The people in the Border area, almost to a man, are in the low wage-earning category. They are mainly involved with the agriculture industry, which is notorious for its bad wages. The provisions that the Committee is discussing are vital for people in my constituency. The Liberal party has a distinctive policy which it has promoted for many years. The Committee will not be surprised to learn that the Liberal party is in favour of a total reform of the tax, rates and benefits system. We would move as quickly as possible to a system of tax credits, which would remove anomalies and provide a fairer overall system. A reduced rate band should be introduced to lessen the injustice of those liable to tax at the world record rate, including national insurance contribution, of 39 per cent. The principle of indexation may be reasonable, but although we would accept a 5·5 per cent. indexation, a 14 per cent. indexation on top of the increases in personal allowances is wholly unacceptable. It will shift the burden further from the shoulders of the rich to the backs of the low-paid. As I said earlier, my Chief Whip warned me that the Liberal party would eventually have to make the choice   between the red devil and the deep blue sea. After due consideration, we shall reluctantly follow the red devil, the hon. Member for Livingston, into the Lobby tonight.
