gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I never imagined that when I came into this House a day or two ago I would be called and would be speaking in the first  Debate on the Gracious Speech. If I may make a personal remark, I never imagined that you, Mr. Speaker—and I am one of your constituents—would be the person who would call me. However, I congratulate you, Sir, on that aspect of freedom of speech; we both believe in it, and I am very happy that I am participating in this Debate. I am rather dismayed that there is no specific reference in the Gracious Speech to our main human problem in Scotland, and that is the specific problem of the lack of housing. We who have had long local authority experience know full well that our greatest worry is that most of our time both in the streets and at the fireside is taken up listening to heartbreaking stories about lack of housing. Conditions are such that I feel that this Parliament, no matter what its composition may be, has got to do something of a first-line order to lessen the moral and social injustices which arise from this problem. While It is a great Scottish problem, I am aware that the problem is felt in Britain as well, in the rural areas as well as the industrial areas. Consequently, we should have unanimity on both sides of the House in examining the ways and means of how best to tackle the problem. The right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) said that the Leader of the Opposition would touch on this problem. I am aware that the Leader of the Opposition in the course of his election campaign referred to the fact that today we are producing 500 houses as against 1,000 just before the war. I do not think the periods are comparable; we must recognise that we started with a denuded labour force and a shortage of materials. The only true comparable periods are possibly after the First World War and after the Second World War. I gather from Opposition Members' speeches that their main solution is to set the private builders free. Speaking as one who was driven into public life because of the problem in my own area, I say that if we took that course today we should have a lower production of municipal houses. One would imagine, from reading Opposition speeches, that building trade operatives were queueing up at the labour exchanges. No such thing is happening, of course; in every area we are trying to get more building   trade operatives. The problem boils down to this: if we were to set the builders free, we would have no guarantee that houses would be built at all. We would have a lower production of houses instead of an augmentation of the number of municipal houses. It appears to me that this question is in the wrong perspective altogether. As I see it, what we need is a greater concentration of controls in order to get a greater production of houses. I feel that there is a lack of flow of the various components to the various local authority areas and that not enough attention is paid to the need for houses when the allocation of houses to various local authority areas is considered. No one has ever been able to tell me, either at St. Andrew's House or anywhere else, what formula decides the number of houses local authorities are to have allocated to their particular areas. I feel that the only real factor we can use is the need for homes, and the size of that need should decide the number of houses to be built in any particular local authority area. I hope the Government will pay special attention to this question of need. I believe that bringing in private enterprise building as a completely free aspect to the provision of houses would simply mean fewer municipal houses and more privately-owned houses for people who could buy the land and the house, and a consequent conflict with allocation by need, because we would not be building by need but would be building because of the amount of money a man had in his pocket. If we can continue with the present system, if we can introduce this aspect of need in a clearer way, if we can at the source have a little more control in order to get more components going where they are needed, we shall make progress. I recognise full well that we cannot build municipal houses in vast estates without the provision of schools and the other corollaries which form a natural part of housing development, but I feel nevertheless that we should recognise this question of houses as priority number one in Scotland. I am convinced of that through the interest shown in it in my constituency and in other constituencies in which I addressed meetings. But while that is the first priority, there is one other aspect of the Gracious Speech  upon which I want to touch. We have indicated the importance of a good clean water supply being taken into every rural area. We do not mean just to the farm or the house; we mean even to the fields where water is needed. That will obviate the need of a great deal of labour in connection with changing cattle from one place to another at periods during the day. But allied to this there is another problem. In my constituency I know of one instance, in particular, where we have too much water. There it is a drainage problem. There is a small river which needs to be deepened in some way or another and certain bridges which need to be widened in order to clear a large number of acres which could be put to good agricultural use. I feel that the Minister of Labour and his Department should look very favourably on applications from areas such as that for help and grants and scientific assistance where necessary, in order that the land may be rapidly brought into cultivation. Those are the two matters on which I wanted to speak. I did not think I should jump into Debate quite so early. I appreciate your indulgence, Sir, and am glad to have had this opportunity and to have got over this first jump.
