gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to be called to speak in this important debate and for this opportunity to make my maiden speech to the House. I was lucky enough to have been elected in the recent by-election to a constituency in one of the most pleasant and sought-after areas of the country. But, in common with most places, Epsom and Ewell has its problems, and the one that has been most persistent is that of rogue gipsies. Gipsies have historic rights to make use of Epsom Downs at certain times of the year, but today constituents are faced with the problem of rogue gipsies many of whom are not proper gipsies at all, who camp in the centre of the area the whole year round. Many of these people openly flout the law and are a source of great aggravation to shopkeepers and townspeople alike. At the same time, they claim protection under ancient Acts of Parliament. Epsom and Ewell is associated with the Derby and has an extremely fine racecourse. Only last week 250,000 people cheered home an English horse and an English jockey in an extremely exciting finish to what is without doubt the most famous race in the world. Racing and British bloodstock remain an important industry in the constituency, and play a significant role in helping our balance of payments, but it is regrettable that the number of Epsom trainers in the post-war years has declined from 22 to eight, with the inevitable loss of jobs that has resulted. In the seventeenth century Epsom was a fashionable spa favoured by royalty, which is how we come to have Epsom Salts. Unfortunately the salts, renowned for their properties as a purgative and chemically known as magnesium sulphate, are no longer produced in Epsom but are more likely to be imported from West Germany. One wonders whether this is a case of misrepresentation under the Trade Descriptions Act. However, the  constituency continues its association with the health of the nation, and today has four large mental hospitals serving many London boroughs. I also wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor, Peter Rawlinson, who represented the constituency for nearly 23 years. He is now Lord Rawlinson of Ewell, having been deservedly elevated to another place. His distinguished record as a Law Officer took him through some very troubled times in our recent history when terrorism in British cities was at its worst. Both Peter Rawlinson and his family had to be given the strictest possible police security, with all the inconvenience and discomfort in which that resulted. I am sure that hon. Members will join me in wishing every success to him in his future career, wherever it may take him. I have spent most of my working life in industry, and I share the concern of hon. Members on both sides of the House that British manufacturing industry has been in a state of decline for far too long. As competition from the developing world gets fiercer, many of our traditional industries are under threat and are unsure of their survival, yet the Government propose to burden them with increased national insurance contributions and higher interest rates. Surely it would be better for Government to cut back on public expenditure than to impose an even heavier burden on the industrial sector. We shall never be able to reduce the queues of unemployed while the Government make it more expensive to take on labour. We shall never get the level of investment that we need in industry as long as Government borrowing pushes up interest rates, and high personal taxation holds down consumer demand. It surely must be apparent that the Government can either increase public spending or it can set about reviving British industry—but it cannot do both. I describe myself as a small business man, by which I do not mean that I am particularly small, but the engineering company that I run employs 35 people. From my experience, I have found that many small businesses are under-capitalised and depend most heavily on their skilled employees. As little of their machinery is automated, the only way they can respond to rising demand is by taking on more operators. In contrast   in our large industries, demand can increase significantly before they need to employ more workers. But many of our small businesses could expand their work force in these days if they did not feel that the Government were against them and that the future was so uncertain. So much of the Government's recent legislation has only succeeded in discouraging employers from taking on labour and building up their businesses. The effect of employment protection legislation means that many small businesses are now employing workers on short-term contracts to avoid the liabilities that arise from longer periods of service. When small business men hear about the workings of the industrial courts, it is always the horror stories of anti-employer bias and exorbitant awards that get the widest coverage. Few of these people feel confident enough to conduct their own defence and therefore they hire lawyers—and legal fees can mount alarmingly. It is hardly surprising that so many small employers settle out of court to avoid spending valuable time away from work. It is no surprise either that unions invariably advise their members to have a go in the industrial court. It can so often produce a tax-free bonus for very little effort and no expense. Hon. Members must question the wisdom of legislation that protects people at work but at the same time puts more men and women in the dole queues. What a tragedy it was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer's thirteenth and fourteenth Budgets missed such a golden opportunity to give a new deal to British industry—a new deal to transfer the burden of tax from what we earn to what we spend, so that wage earners can once again be rewarded for their efforts, so that it will be worth while to work the extra hours, or to train for greater skills or promotions. We need a new deal that would make it pay for craftsmen to work for industry again rather than doing, as we know they all do, work outside for cash, a new deal that would bring much of our ablest professional and managerial talent back from abroad to work for the success of this country, and a new deal that would put heart back into our profitmakers—the men with the new ideas, the men who can react quickly to changing  market conditions. I refer to men such as my former constituent, Sir Freddie Laker, who was justly recognised in the recent Birthday Honours, and who can take on the giant organisations and beat them. These are the men who can get British industry moving again, who can realise the potential of our inventors and engineers, and who can put Britain back on the industrial map. Finally, surely we must try to bridge the gulf that divides people at work. Now that so many industries are fighting for survival, should we not work together for prosperity which everyone can share? Should not the Chancellor encourage an attitude to profits so that all the workers in an enterprise can participate? I wish to see Britain adopt a system similar to the system in France where profit-sharing schemes are tax-deductible to the company and, after a period, are paid tax-free to the employee. People in industry must realise that the divide between ""them"" and ""us"", between management and unions, is largely illusory. The real division is between success and failure, between profit and loss. Industry stands on the right side of that division when everybody works together for the prosperity in which all can share. I wish to thank the House for listening to me so patiently.
