gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, it is with great diffidence that I rise to make my maiden speech, I can assure you that I would have been very much more at home in the debate yesterday afternoon. I seek the indulgence of the House in speaking on  matters which are, if anything, rather divorced from foreign affairs and defence, although I suppose that it is very difficult to separate those vital matters of policy from any form of home affairs. I have tremendous pride in presenting myself as the Member for Ilford, South. This constituency has for the last 16 years been represented by Mr. A. E. Cooper who, I understand, made quite a reputation for himself in the House. Like Mr. Cooper, I served on the Ilford Borough Council and still have the honour of serving the Greater London Borough of Redbridge, of which my constituency forms a part. I am sure that Mr. Cooper will enjoy a very long retirement and I hope that it will be a happy one. At first sight Ilford, South is very similar to most other London suburbs. In fact, I remember that when I first went to live in the town I described it as something of a wilderness of bricks and mortar. But on closer examination one finds that Ilford has a vibrant life of its own. It is very fortunate in having many organisations which cater for the cultural and leisure pursuits of its inhabitants, and these activities are very well supported by the local authority through its newly-formed arts council. It has a thriving shopping centre. It has a diversity of industries, most of them rather small, but, nevertheless, all playing an important part in the national effort. It is rather interesting to note that one firm carries the name of Ilford throughout the world, and there is another, a chemical works, which pioneered the manufacture of aspirin in this country. No doubt, many right hon. and hon. Members of the House must have been relieved at some time by its product. My constituency has many problems, particularly with regard to housing, rates and the like, but it is on education that I wish to speak this afternoon. Parents of Ilford, South are second to none in their anxiety for the future of their children; for too long they have endured out-dated and unsatisfactory school buildings. This area contains much of the older part of the borough where, in the main, the schools are of the old school board type. The conditions of many of these schools have already been brought to the notice   of the House, but I cannot help referring to an article in last week's local Press dealing with one particular school, the Mount Girls' Secondary School, under the title of ""School of Shame."" I know that newspapers have the knack of using extravagant headlines, but this description adequately covers this school where constantly the work of the girls is interrupted by the noise of machinery and the sharp blasts of escaping steam from the nearby chemical works to which I have already referred. Even in the height of summer, windows have to be kept closed to keep out the dust and the noise. The future of these girls must inevitably be influenced and jeopardised by the conditions under which they have to work. Yet we are told by the chief education officer that it will be at least eight or nine years before there is any hope of a replacement for this school. I suppose that since only this year we have started replacing a primary school in another part of the borough, which was started just after our glorious victory at Waterloo, this is not doing so badly. I commend the intention of the Government to speed up school building. This is outlined in the National Plan. But I hope there will be some flexibility so that perhaps more money can be given for the purposes of school building to meet the various contingencies which will arise somewhere around 1970, to which references have already been made. I was rather intrigued recently by reading a letter in The Guardian following the controversy raised by the visit of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education and Science to the conference of the National Union of Teachers. In this letter the author pointed out to teachers the tremendous amount of money which is being spent on education, second only to expenditure on defence. I might comment that in any well-ordered society we might very well change our priorities. I am certain that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence would agree with me. I particularly welcome the reference in the Gracious Speech to the determination of the Government to advance the reorganisation of secondary education on comprehensive lines. As I said, I am a member of the Redbridge Borough Council and of its education committee,  and I can inform the House that at present there is some dubiety in the minds of members of the committee as to the intentions of the Government in this respect. I certainly welcome the crystal-clear way in which the Secretary of State for Education and Science pointed out to local authorities last night that in no circumstances would he allow the situation of selection at 11-plus and the organisation of secondary education as it is today in its tripartite form. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for your indulgence and for allowing me to bring up matters which, as I said, hardly fit in with the subject which is being discussed this afternoon.
