gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very sensitive of the great personal occasion of addressing the Committee for the first time and pray the indulgence of hon. Members for any crimes which I may commit in procedure or any boredom which I may inflict upon them. As my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, East (Mr. Robert Howarth) said the other day in his maiden speech, like him, I share in the representation of a town and I also have strong links with the cotton industry. Furthermore, I have a direct link with the industry in that for the past 20 years I have earned my living in it. It is a very happy experience to represent in the House of Commons a cotton town which has long boasted the quality of its cotton products, spun and woven, which have meant so much to the economy of the country. The constituency has returned to Parliament many distinguished people, including ""men of cotton"" who have distinguished themselves in the Manchester district as champions of free trade and sponsors of reform both economic and political, in what was known in the area as the Manchester Movement. The only monument in Stockport is to one of these men of radical spirit, Richard Cobden. As times change and the town changes it appears that we are likely to lose this one and only monument in the course of town-centre redevelopment. As he is the only principal Liberal representative we now have in Stockport, we shall care for him and put him safely in another place so that people may see him as a monument of past political activity in the borough. In a recent election campaign article, The Guardian said that the cotton industry in Stockport had declined. It bracketed my party and my candidature with that decline in a way that was somewhat dispiriting. But whilst cotton in Stockport has declined, the Labour Party in its influence and standing increases daily and it has added to its political representation in the House of Commons for the first time for nearly 35 years. In the 20 years that I have spent in the cotton industry, incidentally not in Stockport, decline has been the order of the day. During that time we have seen a considerable reduction in the labour force. We now have only 25 per cent. of the labour force in the town compared with that of 20 years ago. Furthermore, only three spinning mills are running in the town. The rest are closed, either running to ruin or converted to light industry, such as mail order business and light assembly work. We do not complain, in that this ensures a good supply of alternative means of employment in the borough. At a time when there is a demand in the national economy for an increase in exports, for modernisation, and the use of modern technology, the cotton industry can contribute, but in spite of £30 million having been invested in the industry we have not had modernisation followed by greater production. The industry has weakened, and unfortunately control of imported goods has not followed through  and we have not had Government policy to support what had been done in modernisation and rationalisation. A speech by my right hon. Friend the Minister for Economic Affairs, which he made in Manchester 18 months ago, on the part which the cotton industry could play in a national economy was well received by both sides of industry and was most encouraging. I recently had a discussion with the chairman of a large cotton group, and he assured me that, from his point of view, the 15 per cent. temporary import surcharge would give great encouragement to the cotton industry because it would give an essential measure of protection. Indeed, where there had been thoughts of shut-down before, the surcharge is regarded as a most encouraging piece of legislation which the industry hopes will stay for quite some time. In Lancashire, we find that, instead of money pouring into the industry to make it expand, mills are closing. Although there are full order books, there is a shortage of labour. We are extremely short of the kind of workers who can find a decent basis for employment in the industry as such, and, instead of staying in cotton, a good many of them seek employment elsewhere. In Stockport, tremendous concern is being expressed also about a newer industry with a high degree of modern technology. Last week, I met a group of representatives of men and management from a factory which not long ago employed 15,000 people in aircraft production. This labour force is now reduced to 2,000, and the workpeople are very worried about the distribution of nuclear contracts to the Midlands and the south of England, since the very existence of this factory with its 2,000 employees is now seriously challenged. There have been several closures in the Stockport area, and it is a matter of fair play, at least, that something should be done about the distribution of such orders, particularly when it is known that still more work is going to areas where orders are plentiful and full employment prevails. It was most encouraging to have the Government's assurance that there would be early measures to introduce effective policies which would sweep away slums and ancient overcrowded schools. The   obvious matter of overstrained and inadequate hospital services was strongly emphasised by my hon. Friend the Member for Stockport, South (Mr. Orbach) the other day, and I firmly endorse what he said. I am much obliged for the opportunity given me to address the Committee. It has given me the chance to deal with the problems and virtues of a town with which I have had the closest political connection for four years and of an in-industry in which I have earned my living for 20 years. I am happy to think that this occasion has opened for me a medium through which, I trust, I shall be able to contribute in a small way in the future.
