gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would first like to offer my congratulations to the right hon. Gentleman the Foreign Secretary on the factual statement which he gave to the House yesterday. I would also like to commend his speech for its great restraint, in spite of the attacks which have been made on the right hon. Gentleman's policy by some sections of the Press of this country, and many sections of the Press outside it. When one looks at the picture and compares it with the report which we had last June on the international situation, one feels that it is the duty of the House to ask what progress has been made since then. I think we can look back at that period with very small consolation. It is admitted that a   number of the comparatively minor difficulties that faced the United Nations previously have been solved during the intervening period, and at the Paris Conference; but the major difficulties have been left for the United Nations, through the Security Council, to face at some future time. I think that there is one factor that stands out without challenge, as a result of the Paris Conference. It has shown clearly to the world that an Eastern bloc in Europe has been established, and, during the proceedings of the Conference, has moved forward along a common policy. On the other hand, we have seen, with differences, the free, democratic nations more or less working in alignment with each other. That, I think, is a very unhealthy situation, even if avoidable. In spite of the fact that we have this complete rift between two sections of the nations, I am loth to think that the major difficulties cannot be tackled, and I hope with success. I think that we ought to realise the immense difficulties which the right hon. Gentleman the Foreign Secretary, and those representing the other nations at the Conference, were up against. First, there is the strategic situation which is applicable to those nations in the Near East. The problem of Trieste is not a problem solely of Italy and Yugoslavia, but a problem that is affecting, and is affected by, the whole of the nations in the Danube basin, and beyond. Apart from the difficulty of dealing with the situation on a firm ethnical basis, there is the point of view of the commercial importance of the port, which is difficult of solution. To decide the matter on an ethnical basis would be to do an injustice probably to the nations who desire a free outlet of a great port to the Mediterranean. In passing, may I say in respect of our Ally, Soviet Russia, that I think that it is well worth consideration by His Majesty's Government, and those who will be responsible for the peace treaty, whether or not Russia has a claim to an outlet to the Mediterranean? When we remember the vastness of Russia, with two of its main outlets frozen up in the winter, one outlet to the Pacific and the other through a neighbouring country, there may be some justification for the claim put forward by the Soviet Union for an outlet to the Mediterranean. After all, in the past  nations whose borders have not touched the Mediterranean have felt that it was essential to their security that they should have bases in that sea. What we and other countries have claimed as a right cannot be disputed when the matter is dealt with from the point of view of the justification of a country wanting commercial outlets at the nearest point. Apart from the strategic considerations which the nations of the Near East are facing, one of their vital difficulties, in finding a solution to their problems, is the question of the amount of reparations which those countries should pay, and the allocation of those reparations. There are few of the defeated nations that will be in a position to pay any reparations whatever for many years to come, if they are to maintain a social standard in their own country. I believe that the greatest problem facing the United Nations is the question of the future of Germany and Austria. Austria is in a vital position because it is the link between the East and the West, between the Soviet Union, the Danubian States, Yugoslavia and the Mediterranean. I believe that the future of Germany is of more importance because the same essential difficulty which has prevented a settlement of the major issues at the Paris Conference is preventing the members of the Quadripartite Commission from establishing a single economic unit in Germany. I believe that the abolition of zonal conditions in Germany is essential if the future of Europe is to be secured. The abolition of zonal frontiers would have tremendous repercussions on the whole of the international situation and the international difficulties existing today. It is interesting to note the following statement that was made by Mr. Molotov in Paris in July last: The time has come when we should discuss the fate of Germany and the peace treaty with that country. The Soviet Government has always held that the spirit of revenge is a poor counsellor in such affairs. It would be equally incorrect to identify Hitler Germany with the German people, although the German people cannot divest themselves of the responsibility for Germany's aggression, and for its grave consequences. In a speech dealing with the future of Germany, Mr. Molotov went on to say: While still engaged in the war, the Allies declared that they had no intention of destroying the German people. Even at that time when Hitler, with overweening presumption, openly proclaimed that he wanted to destroy Russia, Stalin, head of the Socialist Govern-   ment, ridiculing these boastful stupidities, said, 'It is no more possible to destroy Germany than it is to dastroy Russia, but the Hitler State cart and must be destroyed.' Reading that statement, one wonders what is the obstacle to the creation in Germany of a single economic unit. The sting was in the tail of Mr. Molotov's speech. The attitude of the Soviet Union is that the clauses of the Potsdam Agreement should be carried out in Germany, as for as concerns reparations and the supply of the surplus produce of one zone to another, before Germany becomes a single unit in an economic sense. I claim that it is a sheer impossibility to carry out the terms of the Potsdam Agreement until Germany becomes a single economic unit. I hope the Government will press this position to the utmost when the opportunity occurs at the United Nations Assembly in New York. I had an opportunity, in July, of visiting Germany, and I was convinced, as have been all hon. Members who have visited Germany, that unless the primary producing part of the country can become part of the general economic scheme in Germany, the possibilities of reconstruction in the West will be simply hopeless, because of the lack of food which should be coming from the zone controlled by Russia. On the other hand, the Soviet Union take the view that for any food which is transferred from the Russian zone to the British and American zones, the surplus manufactured products of the Western zones should be paid into the Russian zone in return. The most vital requirement in the American, French and British zones is sufficient food in order to enable the people to get the industries of the country running again. Until they are in a position to be able to produce their own requirements, it will be utterly impossible for them to be able to pay for food imported from the Russian zone, or from abroad. I have been struck by the folly of the Potsdam Agreement and the Yalta Agreement in their effects up to the present.  I think we can all agree that Germany's economic resources must be so restricted that it will be impossible in the future for her to build up an aggressive force for use against any nation in the world. But the wholesale destruction that has taken place—not only that wreaked by our own bombers on the  great cities and ports of Germany, but that which has been carried out under the Potsdam Agreement—proves this, in my opinion, a fallacious method of attempting to restrict German aggression in the future. We have the invidious situation in the Schleswig-Holstein Province of the destruction of practically the whole of the dockyards in North-West Germany, upon which at least seven million people depended for their existence, and of not being able to introduce any industries in that area to take the place of the ones destroyed. I believe, as I have said, that the international problems and difficulties we are facing are capable of solution if we can find that solution through the Quadripartite Commission, and whether it is carried out by them or by the Foreign Secretaries of the four responsible Powers. Once that solution is found the other matters affecting the surrounding nations in Europe and elsewhere would be simplified. I ask the House to bear in mind that what we do today determines the future not only of this country but of the world, and that it may have tremendous repercussions on history. There is another point which, I believe, should be brought out on every conceivable occasion. It is that throughout the world during the last seven years' there has been a complete revulsion of the common people against the inequalities and injustices that existed before the war, and a nobler conception of the duties and endeavours of the future. I think it is well to remember that in our dealings round the peace conference table. The great movement represented on this side of the House owes its present strength to the ethical foundations upon which it was based in the brotherhood of man, and if we can carry on those conceptions and show to the world that we are applying them in the attempt to find a solution to the world difficulties we are facing, I am perfectly satisfied that, in the end, the results will justify the confidence that we have in the ultimate goodness of the peoples of the world. Finally, I should like to refer to a point which has not yet been mentioned in this Debate One of the greatest possible helps that this world can have has come into being during the last few years—the World Trade Union Federation. I believe that, side by side with the responsible Ministers of the various countries, in their endeavours to solve the problems   with which the world is confronted, this great federation of world trade unions can play an important and vital part. We realise that if the workers of the world can be drawn together to discuss the difficulties with which they are confronted from day to day, then the international difficulties between nation and nation will be far more easy to solve and the foundation upon which we shall be building will be firm and will stand us in good stead in the future.
