gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is neither presumption nor impetuosity which leads so newly elected a Member to enter this debate. There could be no more appropriate introduction for me than in a debate on housing. I say this for three reasons. One is that I have the honour and privilege to succeed Mr. Ben Parkin, whose championship of the problems of tenants is well known to the House and who was the Member who uncovered Rachmanism, which was a big factor in the election of a different Government in 1964—so that the Act which made Rachmanism possible could be repealed. Second, my own background in local government has been very much concerned with housing, and I have been proud of a record there of our learning to treat tenants as people and not merely as occupiers of property. The third reason that I feel it right to enter this debate is that housing remains the number one problem in North Paddington. It is a constituency which contains as complete a range of tenanted properties as one could expect to find. Apart from those three reasons, one thing which would have provoked me in any case to enter this debate, if given the opportunity, was the rather disturbing apparent rejoicing by the Opposition that this year's housing figures are somewhat lower than those of the year before. I would simply ask the House and the Opposition whether it is better to aim at a target of 300,000 houses and sometimes get near it or to aim at 500,000 houses and build 400,000. It is the number of houses built which matters to the homeless, not notional targets. The Minister has already said, to put it in a slightly different way, that in the last five years four houses have been built for every three which were built in the last five years of the previous Administration. I suggest that it would have been of more benefit to the homeless if the people now controlling most of the  town halls and city halls had put as much energy into putting up houses as they have put into putting up rents. They seem to show this preoccupation, which was evident in the speech of the hon. Member for Northants, South (Mr. Arthur Jones), with the idea that higher rents are the answer to the housing problem. Higher rents, while not a solution, do represent a way of overcoming the housing problem, because they are a way of concealing need. If rents rise higher and higher, people will not enter their names on waiting lists and one will then appear to have resolved the problem when one has merely concealed the need. I fear that this is a method now being practised in many town halls. The G.L.C. is particularly guilty. There are flats in North Paddington for which the proposed rent is £9 5s. a week although the new tenant may, with the wonderful rebate scheme offered by the G.L.C., have his rent reduced to £7 5s. or £7 15s. So this process of raising rents is a way of concealing the housing problem rather than solving it, and it is already being practised. Rents of that description take a disproportionate part of a wage earner's income. On behalf of the people who recently voted me into the House, I should like to congratulate my right hon. Friend on stopping the G.L.C. rent increases. The people of North Paddington know and approve of this action. However, I want to warn the Minister that the G.L.C. is now finding other ways, having been frustrated in its plan of taking the money from the pockets of G.L.C. tenants. It is renegotiating heating agreements and passing on responsibility for repairs and decoration which previously did not exist. Having been frustrated in its attempt to increase rents, the council is seeking more devious ways of extorting the tenants of its properties in North Paddington and London generally. Another way of overcoming the housing problem, of course, is to evict tenants. I hope that it may be possible, although the Amendment has not been called, for the Minister to comment on Section 5, I believe, of the 1968 Act. This is enabling the G.L.C. to seek to evict tenants not because they have been bad tenants but because it has shied away from the proper course of action   for recovering rent arrears and, in most cowardly fashion, is sheltering behind that Section and simply seeking possession of property, since it is required to state no reasons for doing so. I am told that the reason for this section was that it was assumed that councils and other public bodies would behave reasonably and responsibly. I submit that the G.L.C. in this matter is not behaving in a reasonable and responsible way, and I should like to see the Minister take powers to intervene if an authority abuses what is, after all, a position of trust and privilege. I have spent 18 years in local government and I am as jealous as anyone of the right of local government to resist intervention by the national Government. Frankly, however, the point can be reached when powers are abused or when a local authority is so in default of its social obligations that it is right and proper for the central Government to act, and act urgently. I submit that the same principle arises —this is a debate about housing and one cannot build houses unless one has the land on which to build them—with the all-too-ready willingness of most of these local authorities to dispose of publicly-owned land. It seems that they are following a policy which emanates from what I know to be the other side of Smith Square. I would like to see my side of Smith Square concerned to stop the sale of public land for private commercial purposes. There is such a site in South Paddington. It is land sadly and sorely needed to relieve the long waiting list, but it is now to go for commercial exploitation rather than for the public good. It is in these matters that there is a growing need for the Minister to intervene. It is not reasonable to ask the homeless to wait until 1971, because not until then will there be a chance for the people of London to tell these councils what they think of their housing policies. I welcome the Minister's statement that the machinery is to be reviewed, and I hope that he will go much further. There are many other points about housing that I would like to make, but I will leave most of them for the future. I will content myself on this occasion with merely adding a criticism and expressing  my concern about some of the plans that are in being for modernising property. My right hon. Friend was kind enough to come to North Paddington in the last fortnight. I do not know whether he had a chance to look at the Queen's Park Estate, which contains houses built in the 1880s. Some of these houses are better than others, but Westminster City Council, which has a dismally slow, unambitious and unimaginative approach to the problem, is proposing to modernise 80 houses a year for 10 years. That is to be the rate of progress. At the end of that period, in 1979, those houses will, it is considered, be good for 30 years. This means that it is envisaged that this estate of houses built in the 1880s will provide proper housing standards for the year 2009. The council concerned should think again. In so far as the Ministry may have been concerned in this matter, it should also think again because one of the proposals for these houses, which are to represent a model for the year 2009, is that a kitchen in each house shall be taken away and converted into a bathroom and that a dining room in each shall be taken away and converted into a kitchen. There the process will end. This seems to be taking one step forward and one back at the same time. An hon. Gentleman opposite spoke earlier of the need to take a bulldozer to convert houses. There are many cases where a bulldozer is needed if we are to have a forward-looking policy which takes full account of housing standards for the future. It is in connection with the process of modernising houses that one must question whether local authorities are the right agents or whether the Minister should consider establishing a new public body to deal with these activities, for more urgent action is required and we need to enforce more strenuous standards. It is sometimes suggested that there is an air of unreality about the Palace of Westminster. I am sure that other newly-elected hon. Members will have been surprised at what has occurred in the last day or two and may, to some degree at any rate, have had a feeling of disbelief at having been elected to this place. The behaviour of hon. Gentlemen opposite has contributed very much to that feeling   of disbelief and unreality, for yesterday they were attacking the Government for solving the balance of payments problem while today they are attacking the Government for building more houses than they built in their comparable five years in office.
