gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the Committee for the first time, I have no doubt that the kindness which the Committee usually shows to new and nervous Members will be shown to me. As I stood at the Bar of the House a few days ago waiting to take my seat, I remarked to one of my hon. Friends that being elected to Parliament appeared to be one ordeal after another. But perhaps  I have the consolation that if I am ever asked to broadcast in ""The Week in Westminster"" I shall feel more at home there than I do now. The hon. and gallant Member for New Forest and Christchurch (Colonel Crosthwaite-Eyre) will forgive me if I do not follow him in the remarks he made to the Committee. The first thing I want to do, since we are discussing the financial and economic policy of the Government, is to bear a message to His Majesty's Government of the confidence of the electors of the Sowerby Division. There, as hon. Members will have observed, the electors polled more votes for the Government and fewer against them than they did in the General Election in 1945. Yorkshire folk like plain speaking. They like to have it as man to man, they like to have facts calmly and fearlessly stated. The qualities of mind and character of my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer are much admired among my constituents. He need have no fear that in his Budget statement last Wednesday he did any disservice to the nation or to His Majesty's Government. The people in the home of industrial trade unionism and of the development of the friendly society movement, are able to distinguish between taxation which is a form of contribution to Britain's friendly society, and taxation which is levied to defray the cost of Defence and administration. That distinction was sharply drawn by the people among whom I mixed. The progress we are making towards recovery is being vigorously supported by the sturdy men and women of the West Riding who are putting a great deal into both export and home production. Perhaps our first disappointment at the Budget proposals was due to looking at them in isolation and not regarding them, as we should have done, as part of a series. Many hon. and right hon. Members had been looking for what we call an incentive Budget, forgetting perhaps that we had one last year and the year before. My hon. Friend the Member for South Hammersmith (Mr. W. T. Williams) has already referred to the reliefs and incentives, which were contained in the Budget of last year. Might I be permitted to refresh the minds of the Committee on what they were? The earned income relief, to take one of them, was increased from one-sixth to   one-fifth, and the maximum set-off was raised from £250 to £400, a higher figure than it was before the war. Age relief was increased to one-fifth also. The exemption limit was raised from £120 to £135, and the belt of tax charged at the reduced rate of 6s. was considerably widened. After the first £50 of tax charged at 3s. in the £, before last year's Budget the next £75 was charged at 6s., whereas after the Budget that belt of reduced rate of tax was increased to £200. Finally, married women in employment were given concessions for Income Tax which meant a considerable improvement in their position. The cost of these changes was over £100 million a year. Actually, they did not begin until last July, though they were retrospective to the beginning of the financial year. Therefore, it is less than a year since we began to feel the benefit of those changes, and some of us remember that we enjoyed a brief but noticeable tax holiday. But that is not all. If we look at the Income Tax reductions made in the last three Budgets, we find that a single man earning £300 a year has had his tax reduced by one-quarter; a married man, with no children, earning £400 a year, has had his tax reduced by one-third; and a married man, with three children, earning £500 a year, has had his tax reduced by three-quarters. Several million of wage and salary earners were relieved of Income Tax altogether. Turning to another aspect of last year's incentive Budget, I should like to refer to the changes in Purchase Tax. The Chancellor of the Exchequer declared himself to be most anxious to make some contribution to a lowering of prices by reducing Purchase Tax on many goods which most concern the hard-pressed housewife. He reduced Purchase Tax from 50 per cent. to 3⅓ per cent. on a wide range of household goods. This brought about a price reduction of 10 per cent. on £500 million worth of goods mostly consumed in the home, and cost the Exchequer £50 million. So much for the incentive Budget of last year. Let us see what has happened to wages in the meantime. Like the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull (Captain Hewitson), I am the secretary of a trade union of 36,000 people who have  never yet gone on strike, though some folks perhaps wish they would. I am the secretary of the Inland Revenue Staff Federation. We are affiliated to the Trades Union Congress, we have endorsed the Government's White Paper on Personal Incomes, Wages and Prices and have voted accordingly at the Trades Union Congress. Like the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull, I am concerned with the level of wages and the purchasing power of wages, but I do not want to be impulsive in this matter. I see that, on 7th April, in this House, my hon. and gallant Friend said: I have in my hand a list of industries numbering 151; in 122 of these 95s. or less is the average weekly basic wage.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 7th April, 1949, Vol. 463, c. 2278.] My hon. Friend the Member for South Hammersmith (Mr. W. T. Williams) has referred to these figures in his own speech. I have made a careful study of the ""Ministry of Labour Gazette"" for March, 1949, and I am unable to find a single industry, in which the average earnings were less than 100s. per week. In fact, the average earnings for men of 21 and over in the last pay week of October, 1948, was no less than 137s. 11d., and for women of 18 and over the average earnings were 74s. 6d. It may have been that my hon. and gallant Friend was drawing a distinction between basic wages and actual earnings. May I suggest that it is misleading to refer to basic wages if, in fact, actual earnings are consistently above the basic rates? Anyhow, the point I want to make is that, since the Budget of last year, average earnings have risen by very nearly 4s. a week, and the average for last October was very nearly 10s. higher than the average for the previous October. Reviewing the past 12 months, it can be said that Income Tax reductions, Purchase Tax reductions and increases in earnings have amounted to something between 6s. and 8s. a week. As against that, the index of retail prices was the same on food this year as it was in April last year. That is the background to our consideration of what my right hon. and learned Friend proposed in his Budget statement last Wednesday. Many of us are no doubt disappointed that further easements in both direct and indirect taxation are not possible. The Chancellor has described this one as the   ""holdfast Budget""; in other words, it is the Budget after the one before. What troubles some of us about it is not so much the absence of tax reliefs—we could bear that perhaps for another year—but what the Chancellor proposes to do about food subsidies. Here may I say that I think it is a pity that a halt in the upward movement of the food subsidies has been announced in terms which sound very much like a tax on food. It is not, of course, anything of the kind, though I realise that the effect on the purse of the housewife, and more especially on that of the old age pensioner, may be precisely the same as that of a tax on food, and it may be that the National Assistance Board will have to take these changes into account in reviewing its scale of national assistance. Nevertheless, we should all realise that, even after the retail price of cheese has risen by 4d. per 1b., the subsidy will still be at the rate of 9d. per 1b., which is more than it was two years ago; that is to say, the subsidy, after the reduction proposed by the Chancellor, will still be more than it was two years ago. The same applies to butter. When the retail price goes up from 1s. 4d. per 1b. to 1s. 6d. per 1b., the subsidy will still be about 1s. 2d. per 1b., which is more by 4d. per 1b. than it was two years ago. In the case of margarine, when the Budget increase of a 1d. per 1b. takes place, the subsidy will still be at the rate of 3½d. per 1b. What is so necessary to comprehend about the Chancellor's proposals is that he is not reducing the subsidies but putting a limit on the amount of money he can find out of taxation to pay them. In the recent by-election at Sowerby, I defended subsidies, and I defend them now. When my opponent said that Conservative policy was to make the cost of living cheaper by reducing taxation, I challenged him to say what he proposed to do about the food subsidies, but he never answered the question. At the same time, if there is a limit to what we can afford to pay in food subsidies, there may, by the same token, be a limit on what we can afford to pay for food, and that, perhaps, is the central point. Personally, I attach no importance to the suggestion that food subsidies falsify the true cost of food. One might say the same about the housing subsidy—that it falsifies the true economic rental—or of the National Health Service—that it  falsifies the true cost of doctor and medicine and surgical treatment. These things are now part of our new conception of social services, and are bound up with the whole Socialist economy. Nevertheless, I believe that the Chancellor is justified in shedding part of the load when it gets too heavy by passing some of the higher costs to us, the consumers, if we can bear it; and, if we cannot, we buy less food. But the Chancellor must avoid load shedding of proportions which will stimulate demands for wage increases and lead us again into inflation. Before I finish, I shall say something that may be a message of hope to the Chancellor concerning administration on the revenue side, but, before doing that, may I say a word or two about the proposals concerning National Insurance benefits and Income Tax? This proposal is virtually a tax increase. The Finance Act of 1946 laid down that benefits and allowances under the National Insurance and Family Allowances Acts should be assessed to tax under Schedule E. By the same Acts, contributions under the National Insurance Act were allowed as deductions for Income Tax purposes. The reason why the Chancellor comes forward with a proposal to exempt unemployment, sickness and maternity benefits from tax is purely one of administration. He has discovered the difficulty of which I warned his predecessor, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, that is, his inability to tax these benefits under P.A.Y.E. with the obvious time-lag in bringing them into assessment in consequence. Now, the Chancellor admits that this has got the Inland Revenue beaten. I think his proposal to meet the situation appears to be rather open to question. Parliament decided the principle of taxing benefits and allowing relief for contribution, and now, solely for reasons of administration, the Chancellor proposes to abandon the principle of taxing benefits and to reduce the relief from tax for a corresponding proportion of the contribution. My right hon. and learned Friend is making a virtue of a necessity, and, indeed, is determined to make a profit out of it, because the taxpayer will pay tax on another £3 of his income—which is the reduction in tax allowance for contributions from 4s. 7d. to 3s.—   and get nothing for it unless he draws unemployment, sickness or maternity benefits. The Chancellor wants to abandon the tax which he cannot collect and to impose one which he can, but instead of those who draw the benefits paying the tax, it is to be paid by all who contribute by means of the reduction in the set-off. After blessing the proposed repeal of the Land Tax, which ought to have been done years ago, along with the window tax and the hearth tax, I pass to some remarks I wish to make about leakages, which I believe to be somewhat widespread, in the field of Income Tax assessments under Schedule D on profits, professional fees, businesses, and so on. Whenever I speak on this subject I get into trouble. I have been rebuked by every Chancellor of the Exchequer except the present one, by the late Sir Kingsley Wood in public and by the right hon. Member for the Scottish Universities (Sir J. Anderson), and I am hoping to escape rebuke from my right hon. and learned Friend the present Chancellor of the Exchequer. I have no intention of casting any reflection on the zeal, ability and devotion of the already overworked inspectors of taxes, but the right hon. Member for the Scottish Universities did ask whether there were any arrears in the Inland Revenue and whether the equipment of the taxing machine was equal to the burdens now placed upon it. I would say that the answer to the last question is ""No."" I feel certain that the Chancellor and probably many right hon. and hon. Members will have read a well-informed contributed article which appeared in the ""Economist"" of 7th August, 1948. If right hon. and hon. Members have not already read it, I suggest that it would repay the time to do so. The issue of principle here is that unless the taxing machine is effectual, it becomes very near to an abuse of public confidence. All those of us who are paying our proper share of taxation are entitled to assume that our neighbours, our competitors, our friends and our enemies are doing likewise. Millions of taxpayers pay as they earn. Every pound of wages or salary, all overtime and bonuses go into the reckoning. A smaller, but equally important, body of taxpayers do not pay  as they earn. They are assessed for tax in the normal way on income or profits supported or not, as the case may be, by properly drawn up accounts. The number of inspectors of taxes who have been trained for work in this field of Income Tax is no bigger today than it was in 1939. The staff to deal with Pay As You Earn has greatly expanded, but the number of trained inspectors of taxes devoting themselves almost exclusively to the taxation of profits, has remained the same throughout the war, despite the additional burden of Excess Profits Tax. They simply had to manage as best they could by selecting the work they could do and leaving aside the work they could not do. Much investigation and inquiry work is now long overdue. It is not being done and time is going on. By the time these outstanding cases are tackled, there will be great difficulty in ever collecting the money. I assert that the policy of the Inland Revenue Department appears to be to solve the internal difficulties of the Department by compromising with those who are in a position to evade tax at the expense of those who are not. Another factor which contributes to the present unsatisfactory position was the abolition under the Finance Act, 1946, of the office of assessor, an officer who, by his local knowledge and his duty to acquaint the inspector of taxes with possible liabilities, was of great value. What is needed now is to set up in his place a comprehensive information service within the Inland Revenue organisation to end as rapidly as possible conditions in which it is almost a matter of luck whether some people get caught for Income Tax or not. Some estimates that I have seen of the amount of Income Tax which is slipping through the hands of my right hon. and learned Friend each year are very high. They are put at £100 million a year for the last 10 years. Here is the money for the food subsidies; all it needs is gathering in. I am going to make the practical suggestion to my right hon. and learned Friend that, without further delay, he should cause a proper survey to be made over a limited experimental area so that some evidence may be obtained, firstly, of the number of likely taxpayers who are not in the Income Tax net at all, and, secondly, the number in which closer   scrutiny of returns and accounts is judged to be necessary, but which at the present moment is left aside through lack of time. Finally, I suggest that there is a body of intelligent officers already there who might well be turned on to this work, and who at present are pursuing more or less trivial things which crop up on Pay As You Earn. What we do not want are two Income Taxes—Pay As You Earn and ""pay as you like."" If my right hon. and learned Friend will set about this problem at once, the present tenuous estimated surplus may be so much bigger than he ever thought it would be, and then next year, perhaps, we can all look forward to another incentive Budget.
