gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of hon. Members as I rise to speak in this House for the first time. I feel rather more than the customary concern, owing to the potentially controversial nature of the subject under discussion. Some hon. Members and their party believe that the ownership of private property by private citizens in ever-increasing numbers is a good thing for the community, and, possibly, their judgment on this matter may be coloured slightly accordingly. I am also under the impression, from what has been going on this afternoon, that some other hon. Members rather take the opposite view and consider that the ownership of private property is a bad thing for the whole of the community. However, whatever the rights and merits of the case, I shall endeavour to steer clear of that controversy, although I think it is difficult completely to avoid controversy in this matter. I would have preferred to have made my maiden speech in a less controversial atmosphere. The point, surely, is simply that there is a very great and urgent demand for homes which it is the duty of the Government one way or the other to met. In general, different people want different kinds and sizes of homes. Again, some want to buy them and others to rent them. Some can afford a great deal more than others, and the need of some is, of course, a great deal more than that of others. I think that when we view this complicated subject in that light it at once becomes quite apparent how impossible it is to meet this demand by detailed control from Whitehall. I welcome the moves that have so far been made by the Minister of Housing and Local Government in making control more flexible and in giving much more freedom to local authorities to meet the particular needs of their areas. It is now up to the local authorities who, as has already been pointed out, are elected bodies, to meet this need, and, further,   it is up to the people in the areas to see that the authorities meet it correctly. I do not think it should be too readily assumed that all the people whose names are on housing lists at the present time necessarily want to rent houses. Many of them put their names down because they considered it the only way today of getting a house. We should also be careful not to consider this matter of need in isolation. Different people have different needs and can afford different types of houses, even though their primary need of a house may be very much the same. For instance, there are people on the housing lists who could not afford without great hardship to pay, say, 25s. a week for a modern corporation house, but who could afford to pay 12s. a week for another type of house, which I will mention later. I had an instance of this in my own constituency during the past week. It was the case of a labourer earning £5 plus a week, who has an ailing wife and one child and who is running into debt because he is quite unable to pay the rather high rent for his corporation house. From the money point of view there is another side to this need at the other end of the scale. There seems to be an idea in some people's minds that if a man who has money has his name on a housing list he is in some way a less worthy citizen than one who has no money. With the greatest respect, I would point out to people who think that way that such a man may not necessarily be a ""spiv"" but may have got his money through hard work and through listening to the many exhortations given in recent years on the question of saving. I suggest that such people should be allowed to buy their homes if they wish, because, as was pointed out by the right hon. Member for Southport (Mr. R. S. Hudson), by so doing they are relieving the local authorities and the central government of a burden I now wish to pass to my second point, and I hope that I shall be in order in discussing it in relation to that part of the Motion which says: and so prolonging the time which those on local authority housing lists with greatest need must wait before being rehoused It strikes me that in this debate, which, after all, is really on the housing need of  the country, however much it may appear to be limited by the Motion, we shall be ignoring a very important side of the matter if we do not consider the question of maintaining in a habitable state the millions of houses which do not belong to local authorities. I shall be glad if the Minister will tell us what is his policy in regard to houses which are slowly but relentlessly falling into dilapidation, and what arrangements he is going to make to enable them to be kept in good condition. As yet we have had no statement of policy on the matter. I would have thought that this was a subject very dear to Tory gentlemen opposite, and I hope that the many professions made to the effect that the Conservative Party have now become true Liberals does not mean, in fact, that they have abandoned one of the virtues of old Toryism. Therefore, I hope that we shall have a clear statement of policy in the near future. I think it is rightly recognised that the Rent Restrictions Act, owing to the way it works, is merely resulting, at the moment, in the selling of cheap cottage property as soon as a house becomes vacant. The effect of this is that the pool of such property to let is becoming smaller, and unless something is done to stop it more houses in this category will cease to be available for letting than will result from the policy of the Government of allowing corporation houses to be sold. If rents were allowed to go up by, say, 2s. or 3s. a week, then the type of person I have just mentioned would possibly be able to find a house the rent of which he could afford to pay more easily than that of his present corporation house. I suggest to the Minister that something on these lines might be considered, that an increase of 25 per cent. in the controlled rent be allowed where the landlord is responsible for all repairs and pro rata where his liability is less, with the following proviso: that the landlord obtains a certificate from the local authority that he has discharged his obligations as to repairs and that the various alterations up or down in rent are taken into consideration when adding on the 25 per cent, whether it be for houses restricted under the 1920, 1939 Acts or since June, 1945. Although, on the face of it, this may not seem a very popular   move, I know there are many people on both sides of the House who understand the problem very thoroughly and who feel that something should be done. I hope that I shall be excused for raising this matter in a maiden speech, if only because I consider that this should be a non-controversial subject. It is a very important subject, and I do not think it should be bandied about as a political issue, but should be dealt with on its merits. I feel that if the Minister can deal with the problem of housing with fairness and justice, and can really tackle restrictive practices and price rings on the employers' side and encourage the labour force to get back to its pre-war productivity, he will have earned the gratitude of the country and the esteem of this House.
