gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech in this very important and in many ways historic debate. I could happily have forgone the undoubted privilege of having to make it after two such eminent speakers have adorned the Dispatch Boxes. I know that there are very many hon. Members on both sides of the House who want to make a contribution in this debate. I certainly shall not indulge in one of those long and philosophical discourses on what is or is not the ideal make-up of a maiden speech. What I should like to do, however, and I am sure hon. Members on both sides of the House would wish me to do it, is to pay a genuine tribute to my predecessor, Harry Hynd. He was a Member of this House for 21 years and represented Accrington for 16 of those years. I think that hon. Members will agree with me in the view that he won the respect of all parts of the House particularly for his skill and impartiality  when sitting as a Chairman of Committee. May I also make reference to my constituency? Accrington is as dourly and defiantly a Lancashire industrial constituency as any to be found. Its history pays eloquent testimony to the need for the measures we are discussing today. For many years the creative genius and the skills of Lancashire revolutionised the cotton industry of this country. The country prospered, but Accrington and other Lancashire towns were rewarded with more than their share of unemployment and years of hardship and neglect. It is true that Accrington is now a prosperous, thriving industrial engineering town. We export the finest textile machinery in the world. But one does not need to be an economist to know that the fear and remembrance of unemployment still hangs thickly in the air of Lancashire. One of the reasons why I support an effective productivity prices and incomes policy is that it seems to me that the only alternative is the painful process of higher taxation, reduced investment and unemployment. This is an all too familiar pattern in Lancashire. It never succeeded in solving Lancashire's problems in the past and will not succeed in solving Lancashire's problems now. Everyone is familiar with the disease facing this nation. The word""inflation""is now part of the language of social chit-chat. Everyone talks about it and everyone knows what the causes of inflation are. It is equally true that everyone knows that there is no instant solution to the problem. But that is not a reason for any Government, let alone a Labour Government, to sit on the sidelines and watch the competing forces in our society fighting their private battles for supremacy. The only people who suffer as a result of those battles are the consumer, the housewife, and the man in the street. It is the duty of the Government to guide and lead those forces into a joint effort to achieve the three vital ingredients necessary in any remedy for economic recovery—maintenance of a stable general price level, the need to keep incomes in line with national output, and rising productivity. If we accept those principles we accept the Government prices and incomes policy. If we accept the   prices and incomes policy of the Government, we cannot say,""Yes, we as a Government feel it is important to tell people these things, we as a Government think is important enough to set up a prices and incomes board and to institute an early warning system, but we do not think it important enough, or we have not got the courage, to put it on the Statute Book."" If we accept the Government's income policy we must accept the measures which are detailed in this Bill. The right hon. Member for Barnet (Mr. Maudling) referred to restrictive practices. Of course, we on this side of the House are equally determined to rid this country of restrictive practices, but I remind the right hon. Member that restrictive practices are not confined to one side of industry. They are not confined to one class of the community. I speak as a member of a profession which over the years has not been exactly under-represented in this House. I can assure hon. Members—and other members of my profession would agree—that there are restrictive practices at the Bar, including the iniquitous two-thirds rule, which, if they existed on the shop floor, would have every leader writer in Fleet Street indulging in an orgy of invective. I thank this House for listening to me with such tolerance and patience. It was not perhaps the ideal occasion upon which to make a maiden speech. I can think of less controversial measures to which I have listened in this House, but for any maiden speaker this is a very important debate, a significant debate and a memorable debate in which to have intervened.
