gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a sense of humility that I rise to speak on this, the first occasion on which I have addressed the House. I do so because I follow in the footsteps of a man who, by his conscientiousness, his loyalty to his party and, above all, his sincerity, earned the love of hon. Members of this House. Indeed, it has become apparent  to me in the last fortnight that I have been here that that love has been shared by right hon. and hon. Members on both sides of the House. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I only hope that I shall be able to follow his example to the best of my ability. I refer, of course, to my predecessor the late hon. Member for Aberdare. I ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments. I represent a constituency which is called a mining constituency; it is typical of many of the mining constituencies in South Wales. I feel, indeed, that ""mining"" is too specific an adjective these days because in post-war years we have seen such a radical change that I think it is fair to call these constituencies industrial, on a broader basis. This has been brought about, of course, by the recruitment of the light industries to bolster up the basic industry of coalmining in my constituency, and by a successful policy of full employment. But in saying that, I should like to stress that quite unconsciously there has come about a certain complacency in dealing with pockets of unemployment. In the employment exchanges I believe those concerned are called, quite respectfully, the unemployable. My hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cardigan (Mr. Bowen) referred to the percentage figures of unemployed in South Wales. I should like to read part of paragraph 25 of the Report, which says: The percentage figures of unemployment in Wales in June, 1954, were 1·9 for men, 2·6 for women and 2·1 in total. Those for Great Britain were 1·1 for men, 1·2 for women and 1·1 in total. I do not want to elaborate further what my hon. and learned Friend has said? about those figures in contrast to the figures for England, but what is significant to me is the next sentence: The higher percentage of unemployed men in Wales as compared with Great Britain is attributable to the higher proportion of disabled men in South Wales. That is the basis of my special plea today. In my own constituency, if I may quote just a few more figures, the number of persons 18 years of age and over registered as unemployed on 17th November, 1954, were 379 men; I am not quoting women in this instance. The number of persons registered under the Disabled   Persons Employment Act, 1944, not classified as suitable for ordinary employment were 224. In other words, of those 379, 224 are classified as disabled workers. We must not allow ourselves to become complacent, because if we treat this problem successfully in my constituency and in constituencies similarly placed, we shall go a long way to bring about a psychological change in the minds of the miners themselves. Many hon. Members will have seen in today's papers that the recruitment to the mines again fell last year in South Wales. The coalmining industry today is of vital importance to the whole of the country, and if we can assure the miners that when they leave the mines through disablement they will not become a legion of the lost—because that is what it amounts to in my constituency—we shall find that men will be more inclined to go into the pits. My simple plea today is that the Minister will place a Remploy factory in the Aberdare and Mountain Ash constituency. I am told by my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil (Mr. S. O. Davies) that a number of people now go from my constituency to the Remploy factory at Merthyr. It will be appreciated that whatever their disablement is, travelling any distance is not conducive to the health of these persons. In this connection, I feel that it is fair to pay a tribute to the industrial employers in my constituency. I refer in particular to those on the Rhigos trading estate. They are employing far in excess of the statutory 3 per cent. disabled, and in these days of harsh competition I think it is unfair to ask them to employ any greater number. It must be remembered that in the South Wales mines we have a problem of dust, and despite the efforts of the National Coal Board to ameliorate those conditions, we shall have the problem of the disabled for many years. Therefore, I do not want the Minister to feel that once he eliminates the 224 men by placing a Remploy factory in Aberdare the problem will be over, because for many years to come we shall have this special problem of disabled workers from the mining industry. There is another aspect of the problem on which I should like the Minister to  keep a watchful eye. It is perhaps rather paradoxical, but it has the same bearing on the point that I was making just now. It is that we should have full employment on these trading estates, because if we have not these avenues of employment in the mining valleys, we shall lose the men from those valleys. To illustrate my point, I would say that a short while ago I was talking to a lady, and I asked her what was happening to her son now that he was leaving school. She said to me, apologetically, which describes the attitude of people who can remember the pre-war years, ""Oh, he has gone into the pits."" Then she said, in good spirits, ""There are good prospects there, and he is hoping to become a mining engineer."" She then added—and this is significant—""But if he does not like the pits, there is plenty of employment on the Rhigos trading estate."" If that alternative employment were not there, that young boy would leave the valleys of South Wales and go to the industrial Midlands or London, and he would be lost to Wales for ever. Therefore, it is important that we should keep a watchful eye on the employment figures on the Rhigos trading estate. There is a point which I consider is not wholly irrelevant to the debate, and that is the question of transport on these trading estates. Those who know South Wales will realise that, owing to the topographical and geographical construction of the valleys, these trading estates have to be placed quite a distance from them. Consequently, the employees have to make considerable journeys. Rhigos trading estate, for example, has been placed in the wettest and coldest part of South Wales, and those who know the rainfall of South Wales will appreciate to the full what I mean by that. For some time the employees who work upon that estate have been faced with the problem of transport, and although the matter is being dealt with on a local level I want it placed on record here, because I feel that the difficulties are such that it will have to be brought to a higher level in the near future. It is no fun for these people to get soaked to the skin and cold while they wait half an hour or more for a bus to take them home. It is not conducive to good health, and I ask the Minister   to give consideration to this matter when it is brought to his attention. I thank hon. Members on both sides of the House for the courtesy which they have shown me in the fortnight that I have been here.
