gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should not have the temerity to address the House at all, especially after the brilliant exposition to which we have just listened—if I may say so without presumption—if I were not fortified by the knowledge of the traditional kindness and toleration of this House towards new aspirants. One quality which I have will, I think, meet with the commendation of the House toTnight—that is, that I hope to be brief. Never have I more earnestly wanted to be brief, than now. I wish to make one point and to ask for information on one issue. The point I would like to make first is a subjective one that I am very glad to see that this Measure has been introduced so early into Parliament. One of the causes that has irritated and angered me a little since I came into this august Assembly was the fact that certain hon. Gentlemen opposite—and please do not think I am intending to be controversial here; I am much too new and much too humble to do that—  from time to time, since discussions on the Gracious Speech and right through our Debates, have suggested that we, on this side of the House, succeeded in winning the Election, very largely, by making all sorts of promises and wild statements which we had neither the desire nor the intention to follow up. I may be a political innocent—no doubt I am—but, casting aside all questions of personal integrity, morality and honour in Parliament—which some people assume do not exist there, and which should exist there more than anywhere—it seems to be a matter of tactical suicide, to propose putting a programme to the country at large, and then to come here, and have neither the desire nor the intention to follow it up. I am certain that my constituents in West Lewisham, whether they agree with me or not, will at least have confidence in the fact that this Government is adhering to the definite concrete policy which it advocated during the election. I am, therefore, very glad to see this Measure so quickly translated from the political programme into legislative action. The question on which I would like to elicit some information, and I think it is quite relevant to the discussion, is in connection with a body which has very close associations with the Bank of England, including monetary ties. I refer to the Corporation of Foreign Bondholders. Members of this House will doubtless be aware that it was founded in 1868, incorporated in 1873, under licence from the Board of Trade, and reconstituted in 1899 by a Special Act of Parliament. The object of the Corporation, and I am quoting from its 71st Annual Report, is: The principal object of the corporation is the protection of the interests of the holders of Foreign Government, State, or Municipal obligations isssued in the United Kingdom….The council endeavour to obtain the earliest information regarding any default or threatened default and take the initiative to ascertain the true facts and to safeguard as far as possible the interests of the Bondholders. It goes on to state: The council have frequently intervened on behalf of individuals whose rights have been prejudiced by the action of foreign Governments. This object has been recognised by at least one Chancellor of the Exchequer in this House, almost officially. The late Mr. Neville Chamberlain, in 1936, said that   he would regard this institution as an appropriate body for dealing with negotiations between British bondholders and foreign Governments. Certainly, the Bank of England has been most closely connected, not only indirectly but directly, in the form of various subsidies, which have been made from time to time, through the Corporation. During the last few years, one finds that in 1940 the Bank of England subsidised the Corporation to the extent of £11,000; in 1941, £13,000; 1942, £12,000; 1943, £12,000 and 1944, £12,000. I should like to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is intended to continue these payments to this body, and upon what terms the continuance is deemed necessary, and how the payments will be made. It may well be that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will consider whether this extremely important function of safeguarding the dwindling British foreign assets ought now to be looked after by a department directly responsible to this House, particularly when one realises that of the Council of 21 members, six are nominated by the British Bankers' Association; I think most of the Members of the House Will agree that there is at least a tendency in banking interests sometimes to favour the elimination of foreign indebtedness by writing off large slices of the old debt so that new loans may be created on which banking commission can be earned. There has been very serious criticism from many quarters as to the competence and efficiency with which this body has discharged its self-appointed task. Recently a compromised settlement, was negotiated largely by this body, for the first mortgage bondholders of the Barcelona Traction Light and Power Company. This company is a legally instituted company in Canada with prosperous operating interest in Spain mostly financed by British investors. Under the settlement this country will be deprived of between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000 foreign exchange held against Spain. These credits would be extremely important for the settlement of various imports which this country might make in Spain over a long period. Actually the company has not paid any interest since 1936. One wonders, particularly having regard to the dwindling volume of British overseas assets, whether it is safe to leave this extremely important function in the  hands of a body such as this. These criticisms, of which there are many from all sources, may or may not be right. What I would like to know from the Chancellor of the Exchequer to-night is whether he proposes to continue the subsidy to the Corporation or whether he is prepared to inaugurate in the new constitution of the bank, a department which will discharge these functions, and therefore be directly responsible to the House.
