gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
While ""stooping to your clemency"" I know that I have no need to ""beg your hearing patiently"" for this House is, I find, a very strange mixture of cruelty and kindness. It always uses kindness to a maiden speaker. I want to give a hearty welcome to this Bill, which I regard as another indication of the will of this Government to honour the substance of its pledges with a rapidity which the Opposition must find extremely disconcerting. Following a recent Parliamentary fashion I might have waved a pamphlet with a big Victory ""V"" on its cover, but I feared that 1 might be reminded that we did propose to institute a Minister for Housing and Planning. I do not like this division of function and division of power between the Ministers of Health, Town and Country Planning and Works. I must say, looking down upon them from the back benches, that I regard this trinity as not being a very bad lot. They look quite decent when you look down on them but I do lean towards the monotheistic in this matter. I think there should be a single Ministry dealing with these important matters. The main factors in housing costs have been variously estimated, but I accept the broad estimate that building materials take up 60 per cent, of the cost, labour 25 per cent, with land interest, etc., taking up some 15 per cent. Accepting that estimate, it is immediately apparent that building materials and the price of building materials are the most important factor which goes into the cost of the house and, subsequently, into the rent which is to be charged for the house It   is encouraging to see that this Government have learned something from the mistakes of their, predecessors. The grave mistake of the Addison scheme, which came into operation in conditions very similar to those existing today, was that of putting a premium on inefficiency. I believe the Government will have to do everything in their power to avoid that mistake, and to avoid another and perhaps crowning error, that of putting a premium on cupidity. I think this Bill does something in that direction by giving the Government powers to control the rings, monopolies and cartels which have sprung up around the industry. We must not sign a blank cheque for the manufacturers of building materials for builders, or for suppliers of builders' materials. It seems to me that in this great housing emergency we shall have to use them all and to use their accumulated knowledge, because I recognise that the suppliers of building materials have an accumulation of knowledge which we might well be using in present conditions. While we are using them for the public interest, we must not make the mistake of allowing them to use the public in their interests. I ask the Minister to use the powers, which this Bill appears to me to confer upon him, ruthlessly to smash the rings and monopolies which have grown up to bleed the public and to indulge in a very definite anti-social practice. The term ""the free play of economic forces"" has long since had no force or meaning in conditions which have enabled businessmen to form monopolies and combines, and without drastic action it is not possible to prevent firms acting together when a higher rate of profit is in prospect. In 1935 76 per cent, of the output of cement was in the hands of three large firms, 76 per cent, of stoves, 60 per cent, of drain pipes, 64 per cent, of cisterns, baths, etc., were in the hands of three large firms. There is no reason to suppose that there has been any improvement. Actually there has been a tightening up by the combines. Sir William Larke, a vice-president of the National Council of the Building Materials, said, in July, 1943, that 60 associations and federations were members of his council, and he went on to urge the small man to 'link up with him. The importance of this was brought to the  attention of the House in the Debate on 15th May last, when the hon. Gentleman the Member for The High Peak (Mr. Molson) said: There is a widespread impression that the cost of building materials at the present time is much higher than it should be, owing to restrictive practices among the manufacturers of building materials. I have here a letter written by Sir George Burt, head of the well-known contracting firm of Mowlems, and chairman of the Burt Committee which has done such valuable work in connection with housing. He says: 'I do not know of a material used in housing of which the selling price of manufacture is not controlled by a combine, ring or other selling arrangement and, generally speaking, its distribution as well. My personal view is that in too many cases the selling price has no proper relation to the cost of production. If there are not too big profits, then there are too many.' ""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th May, 1945; Vol. 410, cols. 2428 and 2429.] That is a clear indication of the recognition that something had to be done. I am glad the Government are taking powers under this Bill to ensure that they will be able to manufacture articles themselves and use bulk purchase for keeping down prices to a reasonable level. It appears to me that this Bill also permits the Government to use the production forces of the country as a whole for the purposes they have in mind. 1 know that we shall not have to press the Minister to do that, but I am hoping that, in addition to using war factories—Royal Ordnance factories, and so on—he will use some of them in the great job of research. Research is a vital factor in relation to these matters, and if the Government are going to succeed in the gigantic task that awaits them, they will have to give ever-increasing attention to research, not only in the building industry but in every industry. We undoubtedly lag behind our competitors, and it is absolutely essential that the Government should take notice of that and use the powers they have to enter into research on a very large scale. We want research into a healthy and economical kitchen—the ""woman's workshop.'' Most of the women's workshops in working-class houses are so badly designed and insanitary that they would be condemned out of hand by any decent factory inspector. By research and improvement of design we can do something to alter the woman's workshop and improve it tremendously. There should be research, too, into heat-   ing systems. Central heating should be set up, not for one house, but for many. We ought to be conducting research into the manufacture of refrigerators so that they could be supplied to people who cannot now afford them. The Minister of Health is quoted as saying in Cardiff on Saturday that Wales is very far behind the rest of the country in the housing drive. He attributed this to the fact that Wales was regarded by many as a place to get away from. The result was that little new building went on there; contractors did not find it a profitable area in which to operate. I think there is something in the Minister's point. My experience as the chairman of a housing committee in South Wales for many years was that the powers at that time had made up their minds that South Wales was to die. I came up, time after time, to the Ministry of Health. The Ministry would say that the scheme I put forward was an excellent one and that I could get on with it. The schemes prepared at that time would have solved the housing problem of the town where I lived, but, although the Ministry gave us - the sanction, the Public Works Loan Board said there was no money for us. We found that one Government Department was cancelling out the work of another. I would ask the Minister of Health, in this connection, not to say that schemes are sanctioned unless the money is going to be provided. That will require greater co-ordination than existed under the old Tory administration. There is one point I would make in answer to the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down after making an excellent speech. I would tell him that, in the case that was mentioned from this side of the House, the surveyor was sacked, and the rest of the building was done by direct labour which, to my mind, was an excellent and wise thing to do in the circumstances. I regard this Bill as being an important contribution towards our full-employment policy. The terrible housing shortage, the postponement of repairs and decorations, and so on, open up a prospect of very rapid expansion in the building industry as a whole, but, unless the planning is done very carefully and related to other industries, that expansion will be followed, eventually, by a very sharp decline and consequent human misery deriving from unemployment. Unless building trade workers have a very  definite pledge, that they would be justified in opposing dilution. They know what happened in the past in connection with dilution in their industry. They will probably have memories of the fact that the housing policy of John Wheatley, and the pledges given to that industry by him, were ignored and broken by the subsequent Conservative Government. That fact was disastrous for the building operatives and industry as a whole. The maximum use of the Wheatley Act would have solved the housing problem of this country before the war, but we failed to use it. Its continuation would have prevented, to some extent, the slump and decline which followed after 1928, by which time the full effect of the repudiation of the Wheatley Act actually came into force. If 'the Ministry use their powers jointly with the ether Government Departments they will be able to do much towards assisting us in this great full-employment policy which we pursue. Finally, I would say to the Government, ""Use your powers boldly, and courageously to smash the rings and cartels which batten on the public purse and which would not hesitate to restrict production in the interests of higher rates of profit. Make the utmost use of war factories and materials, and arrange matters in such a way as to make large-scale migration of people, leaving derelict towns in their wake, impossible."" It was the policy of the Government in the past to leave derelict towns in South Wales, and I hope the Minister will watch that point very carefully. I again urge upon the Government to conduct research on an unprecedented scale, and to build factories, where necessary, to meet the overriding necessity for exports. I have not time, in a maiden speech, to deal with that particular aspect, but I realise the importance of taking command in the building of factories in order to secure that they are properly equipped so as to ensure that the exports, which we must have if we are to pay for our imports, are properly assured. I would ask the Government to pay special attention to devising a method for building schools to meet new educational needs. Schools appear to me to be out of date in ten years. If we go on building schools on the old solid method, we shall find that people will not be prepared to scrap them when educationally they are no longer ideal or practical. Finally, and   above all, I would urge upon the Government that they should be adventurous in this matter of building. Given these things, this trinity—although I said I did not very much like a trinity—will be able to go on and create beautiful and noble cities. I believe they will be able to remove from this land of ours much of the blot of the hideousness which now sprawls across it.
