gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would like to thank the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hale) for raising this matter tonight, for two reasons. The first is that this is an issue in which I know that hon. Members in all parts of the House  are deeply concerned. The second is a personal reason—that it gives me an opportunity at long last to speak in this House and from this place. I think that it is perhaps some sign of a greater understanding of the work which this Ministry of ours is doing that we have not had occasion to speak here before. I would like to point out, first, what is our policy in general cases of disease, before I come to the diseases which the hon. Member has raised with such sincerity tonight. Of all the cases, the first applications for which are submitted to the Ministry, the great majority are of diseases which unhappily are common both to our ordinary civil life and to our military life. In order to be fair to those who put in their claims to us, it is important that we should have some sort of common basis for the treatment of those claims. That common basis, in our view, certainly ought to be a medical one. But let me immediately insist that the narrow medical view is not the view which our Ministry accepts as the one rule. Let me make it clear that any application which comes to us goes to our medical services for their opinion. The doctors are asked to give their advice on whether there is any connection between the man's condition and his service in the Forces. There is no schedule or list of diseases cut out from our consideration. Some hon. Members have from time to time suggested to us that we regard certain types of disease as outside our consideration. That is certainly not true. We are very careful to insist that every case that comes before us should be considered on its merits, and that medical services, when they give it their first consideration, pay full regard to the actual circumstances of the individual case—the of service of the man, whether he has undergone a severe stress or strain, whether there has been any delay in deciding the nature of the case, and all matters of that kind which might militate in his favour. Very often our medical service calls for further medical evidence from independent experts outside our own Ministry to decide what would be the normal advice on a particular type of case. When the doctors have given their advice, the case then goes to the lay officers of our Ministry. who have the strongest advice from us as to the need for very careful and human consideration to be given to each case.   Their approval must be obtained before any decision is conveyed to a claimant. Despite my hon. Friend's request to me not to quote figures, I would say, in fairness to us, that for the last six months at least, over 80 per cent. of the current applications coming to the Ministry as a consequence of the last war have been accepted without any question of appeal. That suggests that we are treating such applications in a very different way from the way in which they have been treated in the past. I thank my hon. Friend for mentioning to me earlier that he would be raising certain cases tonight. He mentioned the terrible disease of disseminated sclerosis. It is correct, as he says, that the cause of this disease is largely unknown. I am anxious to emphasise that we take the greatest care that individual cases are examined on their merits, and not by a rule of thumb method, as suggested by the hon. Member opposite. We insist that, in all cases, the human basis must be given its full importance. I do not know about all the cases which the hon. Member for Oldham raised, but I know of one which he has brought before us. It is a case in which the war service of the man concerned lasted precisely ten days.
