gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I, Sir Charles, ask for the indulgence so much needed by one who ventures to enter the Debates in Committee for the first time? Like other maiden speakers before me, I find it difficult, in a Debate on the Budget, not to touch on some of the great issues which divide the two sides of the Committee. If I find myself unable to avoid them, I would assure hon. Members that I wish to treat them with a mind as free from partisan spirit as I can make it. In the hon. Member for Bristol, Central (Mr. Awbery) I believe I recognise a fellow-countryman. I am sure the hon. Gentleman will agree with me in this, that if we as a country are to maintain our place in the van of nations, we have to produce efficiently and at low cost. How can a Government encourage efficient production? That is the test to be applied to this as, indeed, to any Budget. If I might offer a prescription, I would say that efficient production can be encouraged on two conditions. The first is to ensure that profits are difficult to come by, that they have to be struggled for, but when they have been secured, that an adequate residue is left for the replacement of obsolescent capital and for new capital extensions. Judged by that prescription, I submit that the economic policies of the past few years have been calculated to produce precisely the contrary effect. May I look at this prescription from the point of view of these two aspects and, first, the aspect of taxation. There was noticeable in the speech of the Chancellor an attempt to belittle the evils of high taxation. What exactly are the effects of high taxation? Last summer the Chancellor committed himself to the observation that taxation did not enter into costs. If he meant that taxation did not enter directly into costs, I agree with him. I believe that in making that assertion the right hon. and learned Gentleman had the august backing of the Colwyn Committee. Nor would I wish to exaggerate the discouraging effect which high taxation can have on output, at least immediately. It   is perfectly true that high taxation discourages overtime and that this discouragement has come at a time when the general reduction in the hours of work has made necessary the working of more overtime. But I would not, for my part, wish to over-estimate this particular effect. The main evil of high taxation is of much longer term and we have not yet begun to appreciate it. It lies, first, in diminishing the resources available for new investment and, secondly, in its effect on the quality of the investment made with those diminished resources. We have heard this afternoon from my hon. Friend the Member for The High Peak (Mr. Molson) of the deleterious effect of high taxation on private savings. We know perfectly well that the main constituent of personal savings nowadays is corporate or companies' savings. Yet at the time when these have acquired a new importance they, too, have had to bear an added burden of taxation. I want to elaborate the remarks of my hon. Friend by mentioning one or two figures. If we look at Table 16 of the White Paper on National Income, we find that taxation, calculated as a percentage of trading profits, amounted in 1938 to 15. Since the war the percentage has been consistently above 40. In 1947 it was 41, in 1948 it was 41, in 1949 it was 40. I mention that table because it gives a basis of comparison with the pre-war year of 1938, but I suspect that it underestimates the amount taken in taxation because, if we look at the latest company figures published by the ""Economist"" we shall see that the percentage is as high as 45. At the same time the cost of capital replacement is increasing. If it is not as high as three times what it was in the days before the war, as has been mentioned this afternoon, it is certainly as high as 2½, and the combined effect of both developments is to diminish the financial resources available for new investment. Granted that since the war we have had a relatively high rate of capital formation, but it has been financed in part by the war-time accumulation of liquid assets. That accumulation is now exhausted, and we are thrown back on current profit, into which these inroads are being made. That is the really serious aspect of the matter. As for the qualitative effect on investment, we need in the national interest the pioneering activity. It is precisely the pioneering  activity, as against the known and the settled activity, which is discouraged by the prospect that up to 50 per cent. of an uncertain profit is taken in taxation. There should, in short, be a greater residue from profit. I now come to the second part of my plea, which is for a lower rate of profit. In other words, I want to add my voice to those who in the Debate have spoken of the need for disinflation. I have always listened with the deepest respect and approval to the many admonitions of the Chancellor on this subject. Yet, although the right hon. and learned Gentleman has always appeared steadfast in the utterance, I detect a certain faltering in the execution. He appeared to me to falter last year, and I am not sure that he is not faltering this year. I grant that it is difficult to say when inflation is present. So long as there is a sellers' market, and so long as selling prices can be adapted to costs, controlled inflation can be enjoyed with impunity. However, I would remind the Committee that Japanese and German competition is growing faster than the world market is expanding. When the sellers' market turns to a buyers' market, it is then that inflation shows itself in the disparity in costs between ourselves and other countries. It is against that eventuality that we ought now to be preparing. As evidence of a continued high degree of inflation, I would point to one particular table in the Economic Survey, that on the distribution of manpower. We see there that in the past year the number of workers in an unessential trade such as the distributive trade has increased by 59,000. In essential industries it has remained stationary and in the case of coal it has declined by 27,000. That is evidence of continued inflation. I understand the difficulty of the Chancellor; he hesitates to induce a change in a given pattern of employment. We have heard much this afternoon from the Minister of State about unemployment. We all know that it is perfectly easy to conquer unemployment at a price—for instance, the price of war or of totalitarian compulsion. The problem has been, and still is, to conquer unemployment without paying a price of that kind. But, I fear, we are paying a price today, for the conception of full employment as embodied in the Economic Survey   is to take the distribution of manpower as it existed in, shall we say, 1948 and then to petrify it, to mummify it, and to accept it as immutable and as enduring for ever and ever. In other words, we renounce progress. We abjure any need to adapt ourselves to changing world conditions. In fact, we resign ourselves to arresting the new and the essential, and to supporting the declining and inessential. We have full employment today, but at the price of unemployment tomorrow. That is not the conquest of unemployment. We shall have conquered it only when we have faced the need for change and can effect the change smoothly and quickly. The two parts of my prescription—first, a greater residue from profits, and second, a lower rate of profit—can be fulfilled only on one condition: that is, of course, a reduction in Government expenditure. I come, therefore, to that much disputed territory on which a maiden speaker should fear to tread. I believe that a reduction in Government expenditure is necessary, if only to safeguard the premises on which the Chancellor's budgetary philosophy' is based. The Chancellor made much of the Keynesian idea of using the Budget to influence the economy, but he seemed to me to disregard the limitations with which that idea is surrounded. He did not seem to be conscious of the fact that the weapon of which he is so proud is already a blunted instrument. The Keynesian idea is valid only on condition that the Budget is at a moderate level, for as soon as the Budget is at a high level and taxation threatens taxable capacity itself, it becomes a matter of the most extreme difficulty to achieve a surplus; and that is the point which the Chancellor is approaching. The Chancellor said that if a depression were to appear he would budget for a deficit. But if a depression were to arrive, it would, in the first instance, affect our export trade. If the Chancellor were to try and compensate for declining exports by stoking up home demand, he would be hardening our costs, aggravating our export difficulties and incurring the balance of payments crises which we now know so well. In short, the Chancellor can permit himself the luxury of budgeting for a depression only if our costs are already reasonably competitive with those  of the rest of the world. This is the task which we should be accomplishing now, before it is too late. In the course of the election the Chancellor committed himself to the famous statement that a reduction in Government expenditure was impossible. What is the impediment to a reduction of Government expenditure? I suggest that the real impediment is the long ingrained habit, which was very evident this afternoon in the speech of the hon. Lady the Member for Coventry, South (Miss Burton), of looking at the Budget from the point of view of the redistribution which it effects between class and class. That habit, however, is now out of date, and there should grow in its place a new habit of looking at the Budget from the standpoint of the redistribution which it effects between tense and tense, the present and the future; because if the conclusion which I formed in the first part of my speech is right—that the real evil of high taxation is in its effect on new investment—then it follows that we are enjoying the benefits which we are today receiving—the benefits, for instance, of relatively cheap food—at the expense of the next generation and of the standard of living of our children and our children's children. If that is the case, then this enjoyment is not only unpatriotic, but falls short of the ethical standard which, I am sure, the Chancellor would wish to set himself. All of us on both sides of the Committee are proud of our democracy. We rightly take pride in the fact that its many virtues outweigh its imperfections, but there seems to me to be one imperfection which is growing in importance. It is that a democracy is always tempted to think of the short term, and only too rarely of the long. If we on both sides encourage it in that temptation, if we seek suffrages by benefits today regardless of the cost to be paid by tomorrow, then I am afraid that we are tarnishing the finest example which we have to offer the world and, little though we may know it, we may be drawing the veil over our greatest national achievement.
