gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to the House for this opportunity to address it. I come from a new constituency: Coventry, South-West. Therefore, it is a little difficult for me to follow the customary conventions of courtesy. However, I should like to mention that a large number of my constituents had the pleasure of being represented by my hon. Friend now the Member for Coventry, South-East (Mr. Wilson). I am grateful, too, for the help and kindness that my hon. Friends have shown me in explaining the somewhat obscure procedures of the House. I am grateful as well to the right hon. and learned Member for Surrey, East (Sir G. Howe) for the note on which he ended his contribution, which explained so clearly the priority given by the Tory Party to the question of high profits. My constituents will be most interested to notice the spelling out in such kind and welcome detail of the facts that hon. Members opposite are conscious of the dangers of indiscriminate social benefits but quite oblivious of the dangers of indiscriminate tax hand-outs to the well-off. We never hear the merits of the case for hand-outs to the rich such as my right hon. Friend the Chancellor's predecessors accomplished in their Budgets over the past few years. I am grateful to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Social Services for her statement and for her emphasis that this is a beginning in improving the social services. It is not only we on this side of the House who have escaped  noticing the great improvement in the social services which has taken place over the past three and a half years. My constituents have frequently escaped this blinding knowledge. There are so many casualties of this kind in society that, however good we become in arranging ambulance services to pick up the victims, I fear that unless we make basic changes in the nature of our economy we shall never have sufficient ambulances for all the casualties. The problems that people face do not lie only in the realms of social service, nor are problems faced only by pensioners. I am extremely concerned about the situation in respect of owner-occupiers. I have not really had the privilege of deciding the subject of my own maiden speech. I have had it pressed on me by a telegram from the leader of the Coventry City Council, urging me to make representations to the Government on the need for action to restrain mortgage interest rates. I am asked, too, to express Coventry City Council's pledged support for any move to enlist further local authority involvement in the question of mortgages. I am sure that the sentiments expressed by Coventry City Council are shared by many other local authorities, which are extremely anxious and disturbed at the plight of owner-occupiers. I urge my right hon. Friend to look closely at any possibilities which may exist for short-term amelioration or cushioning of the effects of the increasing mortgage interest rates. My right hon. Friend was correct when he said in his Budget speech that there is no short cut on this question. In talking to the many owner-occupiers in my constituency during the course of the election campaign I was careful to make it quite clear that, if they sent me to the House in the hope that I would add my voice and efforts to those being made on the question of mortgage interest rates, what they were, in fact, asking me to do was to help to make basic and fundamental changes in our whole capitalist system. I share with all my right hon. and hon. Friends the admiration which has been expressed in many quarters at the sheer scope and complexity of this Budget Statement. It is certainly a remarkable achievement in the short time available. Equally certainly, it is simply a beginning. It is not even a halfway house. It   is an attempt to juggle with the horrible situation which we inherited from hon. Members opposite. I am one of many on this side of the House who consider that if we are to build on this beginning we shall have to take urgent and serious steps to gain control of our own economy. I and my constituents have noticed repeatedly that when the phrase ""the national interest"" is used it usually prefaces a statement that the nation cannot afford something which I and my constituents and my hon. Friends want and need very much. It always prefaces a statement that, for instance, we cannot afford better social or medical benefits or better treatment for the disabled. Somehow or other this nation cannot manage to afford those things, and, despite the valiant efforts of my right hon. and hon. Friends now, we are still left with the situation where we cannot afford anything like the improvement which people look to this Government to provide. We shall never be able to afford them until the nation controls the nation's economy. I urge my right hon. Friend to look very carefully at the activities—indeed, the machinations—of the multinational companies and to bear in mind the distortion of the pattern of trade of this country which is implicit in their activities. A very large proportion of our foreign trade is not so much trade between buyers and sellers in the normal way, where prices are fixed as between buyers and sellers, but simple transfer between one section of a giant multinational company and another section. Therefore, the constraints that normally apply in fixing prices between buyers and sellers do not apply at all in this kind of transaction. I urge my right hon. Friend to look carefully at the effect of this on, for instance, the balance of payments. It has a triple effect. Transfer pricing, which can mean overstatement of prices of imports into this country, adversely affects the ceiling level of the balance of payments. It understates profits, causes an Exchequer loss, and causes an inflationary effect on the prices being paid by consumers for imported goods. I should like my right hon. Friend to give serious consideration, first, to obtaining information about these aspects and, secondly,  to tackling them so that the country can run its own economy. I should like to express my disappointment at the fact that my right hon. Friend dismissed in 11 lines the possibility of instituting direct control of imports. I do not think that in a speech which occupies 51 columns of HANSARD 11 lines are sufficient consideration to give to the question of direct import control. I am not a professional economist, but I am not impressed by the handling of the economy which has taken place over so many years under the direct advice and nursing of so many professional economists. I suggest to my right hon. Friend that if resources or foreign currency are scarce there is a certain logic in saying ""Let us import what we can afford and what we most need."" Therefore, there seems to be a good case for import controls at the very least on luxury goods. I hope that by the time my right hon. Friend presents his subsequent Budget he will have given this matter a good deal more consideration. As a Member representing the city of Coventry it behoves me to have particular concern for the interests of my constituents. Whilst again expressing my admiration for the achievements of my right hon. Friend in the production of this impressive Budget, I draw his attention to the feelings which will arise in my constituency concerning the petrol tax. I noticed that my right hon. Friend's reason for introducing VAT on petrol is not simply a financial one. He argued the case not in financial terms but as a means of conserving our supplies of oil and to reduce the pressure on our road system and to make life more tolerable in our towns and countryside. This will help to ensure the economic use of scarce resources"".— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 26th March 1974; Vol. 871, cc. 309–10.] Many hon. Members on the Government side do not think that we can ensure the correct use of scarce resources by increased prices. We do not think that those who can afford to pay more necessarily have a better claim to the use of petrol or of any other scarce resource. I urge my right hon. Friend, when considering transport, to do it as an exercise in transport policy and not as an exercise in taxation policy. I also suggest that any approach to transport which does not take into account the views of persons   engaged in vehicle building will be an inadequate and unsatisfactory approach to transport, since it inevitably involves the use of vehicles. At present, decision making in this area is in private hands. It is not in the hands ultimately of elected representatives of the people, nor of workers in the industry, nor of users of our transport system. As a Member representing the city of Coventry, I urge that we want proper use of petrol but that we do not appreciate this particular action by my right hon. Friend and we look forward to a situation where transport decisions are made by those involved in transport work and vehicle building—in other words, the democratisation of this area of decision making. In conclusion, I should like to say that this is entirely in line with the policies on which I and my hon. Friends fought the General Election, not only for the redistribution of wealth, which we are starting—I look forward to seeing further instalments in the near future—but for the redistribution of power which at present is used indiscriminately in private and irresponsible hands. I look forward to the time when we move on to judging our investment and other programmes on the basis of public need and public decision, taken openly in the best democratic traditions of the House, and extending those democratic decisions to areas which at present are completely closed to any but private closed-doors decision making.
