gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with perhaps, more than the usual anxiety that I rise to address this House for the first time. I have the feelings that are normally felt by the hon. Member who does so, and which have been described to me by so many hon. Members including the hon. Member for Bury (Mr. W. Fletcher) who told me that when he first rose in this House he felt as if he was standing up for the first time in a nudist colony. I have an even greater feeling of responsibility because I realise that I am standing in the place of one who did, I believe,  win the respect and good will of this House, as I found he had won the great confidence and affection of his constituency. The tragic death of Evan Durbin removed from the party of which I am a member and from the service of his country one whose moral and intellectual integrity was of great value in our public life. In a very few moments I want to draw attention to the long-term effects of the changing structure of our world economy and its consequent effects on British and European industry. I think that the officials of the O.E.E. are to be congratulated on the extremely lucid statement of the position of the European economy, as set out in the interim report on E.R.P. I am glad to see it quite officially stated that this situation is not due basically to the war or to actions which may have taken place since the war. It is the result of natural world economic developments. We all know that Western Europe was built up and its standard of life was maintained because of the great advance in industrialisation of the countries of Western Europe. This advance, during the course of this century, has very largely been lost because of the industrialisation of other parts of the world, with the result that, before the war, Western Europe only just maintained itself by means of its invisible exports, chiefly by the interest on its foreign investments. It is not only the increasing industrialisation of other countries which has led to this fundamental change of economic relations; a high level of unemployment in many cases prevented effective demand and so masked the changed economic relations in the world. This fact, combined with great poverty in many parts of the world, ensured a generally favourable position for the buyers of foodstuffs and other primary products, the prices of which were the first to tumble in times of slump. I am afraid I am not one of those who believe that the terms of trade are likely to turn ever again in favour of this country or of Western Europe. I think we have to face the fact of the industrialisation of other countries and also, of course, the considerable biological changes to which certain rather melodramatic American writers have recently drawn attention. In addition to this   increasing industrialisation, and the demands due to full employment, there have been national and social revolutions in many parts of the world which have caused a demand for higher living standards. Particularly in Eastern Europe the distribution of land to the peasants will I think, have the effect of causing a lower productivity and increasing self-consumption. Therefore, we cannot expect again such an amount of food and other materials as we used to get in those parts of the world. I believe that we are now witnessing a beginning of the levelling out of the world standard of living. In this country there has been, as my right hon. Friend mentioned, a very great redistribution of the national income. It has been carried out by the Government during the course of the war, and it is entirely in accordance with the policy of the Government today and of those of us who sit on these benches. It is difficult to present the actual extent of this change in the national income because of the insufficient data that we have on the national income and on its distribution, and because of the changes in value that have taken place since 1938. I am no statistician, but I have made some calculations. I hope they will not be held against me. I am going to use them merely to demonstrate the extent of the change that I think has taken place. These figures are after taxation and at 1938 prices. Therefore, they are real values. I estimate that in 1938 the top 5 per cent. of the population received an average income of just over £1,000 per year, whereas in 1946 the top 3¼per cent. of the population received an average of just over £650. In 1938, the bottom 85 per cent. received an average of £145 per year, whereas in 1946 the bottom 89 per cent. received an average of £170 per year. I am aware that many people were getting above or below the average and some may have been enjoying a high level of income due to expenditure out of capital, but the figures I have given mean that between 18 million and 20 million people are getting, in terms of 1938 values, an extra 10s. a week in their pockets to spend. If we consider the effect of those changes on the home market, it is clear that the demand for certain classes of goods is going to rise much more rapidly than the demand for other goods. We know that the percentage  of income spent on food falls as income rises, the percentage spent on clothing remains constant and the percentage spent on furniture and household goods, and similar semi-luxuries, rises very rapidly indeed. I believe that we need to find out a great deal more about what people spend their money on when they get an extra few shillings in their pockets. Unfortunately, we have far too little knowledge about the nature of the expenditure at different income levels. It is very strange that in that bastion of free enterprise, the United States, there is far more of the basic information required for planning than we have in this country. Before the war, two great studies were made on this subject, dealing with the period roughly from 1934 to 1936, one by the National Resources Committee, published in 1939, and one by the Bureau of Labour Statistics, published in 1941. In this country we have nothing but the Ministry of Labour working class family budgets, based on a survey made in 1937 and 1938, and on which our present cost-of-living index is founded. There are also some small private surveys into middle-class incomes. I would urge that we devote much more attention to this subject. I am glad to hear that the Social Survey is beginning to undertake work of this nature, but they should be enlarged and transferred from the Central Office of Information, where they are situated, to the Central Statistical Office, under which they would be more suitably placed. It is clear that there is going to be a very great increase in the demand for certain classes of goods. Unless those goods can be produced in proper quantities and at proper prices, and if they are not made available, there will be inflation, high prices, and discontent. Can we be satisfied that industry is making the necessary changes to contribute to this end? Is it not perhaps the case that the high cost of living, to which my hon. Friend the Member for Central Bradford (Mr. Webb) referred in a rather inconclusive Debate before the Recess, is due to this factor? I am sorry that we appear to be abandoning some of those utility standards which were a great safeguard for the great mass of lower-income consumers. I believe that both for the home market and for the export market a very much greater rationalisation in types and qualities of goods has to take place, so as to provide for these growing   mass markets both at home and abroad. This would increase our productivity by allowing much better production methods and planning methods. To those who would answer that this process would mean a drab standardisation, I say that that would not necessarily be the case, because modern market research can determine effective consumer choice. There is a large number of goods for which there is no advantage in variety except for a certain snob appeal. I am reminded of a certain story about the higher officials in Hollywood who, finding that there was no way of distinguishing by conspicuous expenditure their different levels of income, took to buying small coloured blocks of wood which were sold at different high prices, and which were then distributed around their drawingrooms. It is sometimes argued that we cannot achieve American standards of productivity because we produce high quality goods, and not mass production goods, and we need these goods for export. This is by no means true over a large range of products, including light engineering products. In so far as it is true, it is because British industry grew up in an era of what I would call a class market at a time when the mass of the population had little money to spend except on subsistence goods, whereas American industry, with a different social and political background, and for other economic reasons, grew up for a mass market. The world with which we hope to trade in the future is changing. My right hon. friends the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Foreign Secretary have told the French and other European countries that we are no longer a market for luxury goods, and, to a large extent, what applies to them applies also to us. After all, our standard of life is higher than that of most other countries in the world. It is certainly true that we must try to produce certain high quality goods in which we are specialists—for example, fine pottery, men's clothing and leather-ware and so on—for the United States and other markets, but the volume is bound to be limited and the market is very vulnerable. We cannot hope to continue to export the cheapest mass production goods in which we were the first to lead the world.  As the hon. Member for Bury has pointed out, there will be competition from Japan and other countries in, for instance, cheap textiles. We must aim to supply those good quality mass produced goods for which the demand rises so rapidly once the subsistence levels are passed, and which require great production engineering skill if they are to be produced in large quantities and at low cost. Those are the sort of goods which I believe will be needed by the suppliers of our essential imports, who are demanding higher standards of life, and they may be the means by which we can persuade them that it is worth while to remain the producers of primary goods. I suggest that we take the lead in establishing, under O.E.E.C., a great statistical organisation to undertake studies of consumer demand in participating countries and countries with which we trade. I understand that the Americans have offered some assistance in this way, and I believe that we should ask them to put their great experience in this class of work at the disposal of the O.E.E.C. organisation. Planning of international trade and investment would then take place more on a basis of knowledge and less on guesswork. At home we should pursue policies directed towards adjusting British industry to suit these changed conditions. I am aware that there are certain aloof critics, such as the laissez-faire economists of the London School of Economics, who will argue that these changes will take place automatically in response to demand. I believe that we cannot await the millenium for that to take place, but must take far more positive action if we are to raise the standard and reduce the cost of living for the dense populations of Western Europe.
