gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, like many others who have spoken to-day, am speaking in this House for the first time, and I ask, as I have learned to expect, that kind indulgence which this House always gives to maiden speakers. I say at once that I hope the Government will stand by the ""age and length of service"" principle. There may have been a time when it was possible to consider the wisdom or otherwise of allowing groups to be released before men in those groups could have arrived back from far distant theatres, but I believe that as a result of the visit of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War to Burma—a visit which I believe the whole House applauds—and of the experience which he got there, it is no longer possible even to suggest that the age and length of service principle to that extent should be given up. I am convinced that the scheme will work. I believe that its success depends primarily upon three main points. The first is the degree to which the Government are successful in weighing up correctly and balancing the conflicting needs of our Forces on the one hand and the  needs of reconstruction at home and of industry and export on the other hand. In the course of what I have to say I will refer to that conflict as a conflict between military necessity on the one hand and industrial necessity on the other hand. I do not thereby mean to indicate that I consider that the claims of education, etc., should be placed in any way second, but I will treat the whole matter under the heading of industrial necessity. The second point, which is absolutely vital to the success of the scheme, is the maintenance of fairness between man and man. As has so often been stated, it is not enough that the Government should think that the scheme is fair and not enough that this House should approve of it as fair; it is essential that it is proved fair to the Forces and also—something which is at times overlooked—to the families and the people at home. The third point, to which I will not refer again, is the necessity of administrative efficiency in the scheme. In that part of the scheme which I have seen, it seems to be living up to the highest standard of efficiency. Many people have complimented the Government on the success with which it is being carried out. It has not yet fallen to my lot to go through the release machine, and it will not be my lot for some time, as I am in one of the delayed release groups. The points which I wish to raise have been put before me in letters which I, like other hon. Members, have received, and also in conversations which I have had in the train in the course of my journeys to and from my constituency. A not unpleasing boon which has been brought to this country by the influx of our American cousins during the war is that they have taught us how to speak to each other in railway carriages. The first point which is confirmed in all the letters I get, is in connection with the R.A.F. I take courage to address the House on this point, even though I may have more particular knowledge of the Army. It is quite clear that the fundamental reason for the unfair delay of release in certain groups of the R.A.F., as compared with the corresponding groups in the other Services, is the decision taken by the Government to maintain an Air Force in June next year at a figure far higher in proportion to the other Services than seems justified. If we compare the strength of the   Forces in June, 1945, the R.A.F. is to the Army as one to three. If we compare the projected strength in June, 1946, it is as one to two. From the many statements which have been made by our Service commanders and experts at the conclusion of the war it was understood that we had reached the correct ratio between ground and air forces. It is up to the Government now, and I would ask the Under-Secretary of State to explain, when he closes the Debate, why it is necessary to keep such a large Air Force in June, 1946, as compared with the strength of the other Forces. The hon. Gentleman did give some explanation in his speech of ten days ago; he referred firstly to transportation and secondly to the decision that Air Forces would play a predominant part in the occupation. I understand the first reason, but I do not understand the second to the full, because I believe that the duty of occupation forces has, perforce, to be carried out in a somewhat humdrum way by the soldiers, who have to stand on sentry, to carry out patrols and to wait ready in a mobile reserve. The Royal Air Force has a definite part to play, but I do not understand how the Government can justify a statement that it has a larger part to play in ratio to the Army than in ordinary mobile warfare. The success of this scheme in connection with the R.A.F. seems to depend on what is decided to be the final relative strength of the Forces. We shall have to wait for the decision of the Government before we can look for any chance of relief for the many airmen who are, quite reasonably, all writing to us with many complaints. There is one small point about the complaints. Many have understood from the statement by the Minister of Labour the other day that, in making their complaints, they were being treated as isolated grumblers. I do not think the Minister wanted to convey that impression and I hope he will reassure the airmen that their reasonable complaints—as many of us think them—are not the complaints of isolated grumblers. Many members of the R.A.F. were transferred last winter from the R.A.F. to the Army. I have received one letter which would indicate that such transfer is still going on, but I have disregarded it altogether. I see the Under-Secretary of State nodding his head. I suggest for his consideration that there might be re-transfer of some  of those men who belong to the highest age groups. In that way we might fill some of the key positions in the Royal Air Force, and allow some of its present members to be released. There may be administrative difficulties and there will, no doubt, be a charge of subjecting these men to many chops and changes. They may make complaints which cannot be put easily into Parliamentary language, but I think hon. Members will understand. There is also the question of intake which has been raised by other hon. Members. I just mention it because it can play some part in righting the balance between the R.A.F. and the other Services. In the letters which I, like other hon. Members, receive, the next point which is put to me is that there are too many men in the Services doing nothing and too few men building houses and playing their part in industry. It is a point fundamental to the whole scheme. I confirm, as I started, by saying that I consider that the ""age plus length of service"" principle of the Bevin scheme can still be adhered to, while some readjustment can and should be made between military necessity on one hand and industrial necessity on the other. I would suggest, first, that the needs of the home machine, the needs of reconstruction, the needs of building, are fully stressed to all members of our Forces abroad, and particularly to the highest commanders. Only in that way will we get the economy in staffs, in units and in personnel which we require and the full co-operation of the heads of our fighting Services in reaching that end. The balance that has to be struck between our needs at home and our needs abroad is a difficult balance to strike when we have the expert opinions of our field marshals, air marshals and admirals, who state their needs, and whose fame is such that their very statements may well be given the colour of final truth. Perhaps it is wrong, but I cannot help comparing the state of affairs that might have risen if my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) had been faced with these experts. I hope the Government will assert not only that they have confidence in the decisions of the military experts, but that they have challenged them and fully inquired into them, and that they fully understand them. From my own experience in a corps headquarters, I know that the Army can   be uneconomical in many ways in the provision of establishments for its staffs and for its units. Though in war-time that lack of economy may be justified because the Army is working 24 hours a day, when we come to occupation forces we are not working 24 hours a day but only working half that time. Before I left my own headquarters, when the troubles had quietened down in Austria and the war had finished, I was struck by the fact that, instead of the size of the headquarters being cut, it was miraculously doubled. That was done for purposes of occupation. I very much doubt whether that is necessary now, and I should like to be reassured that that large increment has evaporated. The second way in which I think we can help to achieve a proper balance between these two necessities is by extending Class B release. That has always been frowned upon on the ground that it will upset the whole basis of the Bevin scheme. I believe that if we raised the figure of 10 per cent.—this mystic figure—by 5 per cent., it would result in the total of the releases in the first six months of next year being increased by 75,000. That is about one week's work for the release machine. I cannot help thinking that all the men of the Forces, wherever they may be, would fully understand a postponement of one week in their release if they realised, as the Noble Lady the Member for Anglesey (Lady Megan Lloyd-George) has so well described how advantageous to their homecoming the release of such men as builders and so on would be. It has often been stated that one of the reasons why such an extension of Class B would upset the Bevin scheme is that key men, particularly builders, belong in the main to one or two age groups. Let us remember, however, that, though the may belong to one age group, they may not belong to one age and service group, because they did not all come into the Forces at once. I suggest to the Government that they seriously consider the extension of Class B by either 5 or 10 per cent. that is to 15 or 20 per cent. of the total during the first six months of next year. The third point which is put to me, which is put by constituents and by many friends because they realise that I have some interest in this matter, concerns the  Army officers whose release has been delayed, that is, the officers of Groups 21 to 24. Had my constituency Blackpool, which has perhaps the best knowledge and understanding of hon. Members opposite, both individually and in the mass, not been reasonable people and elected me, I should have been held in the Forces under the recently announced delay. I can well understand, not only the disappointment of the officers concerned, but the disappointment of those at home and the whole upsetting of any plans that they might have made. I would put forward one or two points for consideration in connection with these officers. Many of them are between the ages of 28 and 31 and joined up at the beginning of the war, if they were not already in the Territorial Army. Many of them, when they come back, will be responsible for employing others and will, perhaps, be the only means of reinstating a large number of men whose reinstatement cannot take place until they are back. The necessity or otherwise of keeping these officers in the Forces is a subject upon which the military experts, with, I believe, the assistance of a man-power committee such as other hon. Members have suggested, can best decide. During the early part of the war, however, and during some of the toughest fighting, both offensive and defensive, many of us served on staffs and in units which did not even have half their proper complement of officers. The Army can function, although not so well or happily, without a proper complement of officers, and if anybody ought to be cut to the knuckle at the present time, it is not those at home but the military forces abroad. I should like to refer to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. He set out clearly the figures upon which the future of the Forces in this country might be based. We are all hoping, not only that the future strength of the Armed Forces, but the conditions of service, will be soon published. When these factors are known, I am certain we shall have a larger proportion of volunteers among both officers and men than we have at the present time. I urge the Government, as they have been urged by many others, to come to the House as soon as possible with a full statement about the future of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and their conditions of service.   To revert to the scheme which is before the House in this Debate, I have striven to stress the two essentials of fairness, and the example I gave was the R.A.F. I have also stressed the need to balance correctly between the requirements of the Forces and the requirements at home. I do that with a full sense of the importance of maintaining our Forces at a proper vigorous strength. Our Forces must not be starved of the men and equipment they need. The question now is, What do they need, not only when their own requirements are take in relation to their job, but when those requirements are balanced against the requirements, so important to all of us here as well as in the Forces, of industdy at home? My final plea to the Government is that they wall really honour the promise which the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister gave in this House on 16th August when, replying to the hon. and gallant Member for Watford (Major Freeman) in the Debate on the Address in reply to the Gracious Speech, he promised that he would let the Forces have the facts. The Forces are not having the facts, we in this House have not got the facts, neither have the people in the country. Let us have these facts. We are fully capable of understanding and appreciating them. Let us too, in any way we can, help the Government in distributing the facts, and the reasons for the various decisions they have to take in order to keep this scheme going. I am quite certain that this scheme can meet the needs of the nation at this time, but it is vital that we retain a sense of balance. Morale has played a big part in the war not only in the Forces abroad or at home, but amongst the civilians. Morale has its place in peace too. Without it we shall not get the full vigour of this country put into the task of reconstruction. That morale depends to a very large extent upon the confidence which the people of this country and the Forces have in the Government's execution of the Bevin scheme for demobilisation.
