gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, like so many others in the past few days, would pray the indulgence of the House for this occasion, the first time I have spoken here. I apologise in that I ask hon. Gentlemen, in reviewing this subject of the Charter, to put away for a moment the telescope they have been using for so very comprehensive a survey and allow me to suggest that they might, for a few moments, use a microscope and examine one or two tiny facets of the problem. The Charter can be translated into a few very simple and homely words. To most of us it means an attempt to give peace to a world that is sick of war, and that peace means a sufficiency of food for all and shelter for all, and a release, perhaps, from the anxieties which have beset so many of us. This word ""anxiety"" has become a technical term not only physically, but psychologically, whether it be used to describe the physical effects on the individual as in certain diseases—Graves'disease—when the hands tremble, the eye protrudes, the skin is hot and the heart is cold, or whether it refers to the anxieties that beset so many human beings in the world, and which are so very difficult to treat; or whether it is a term that should be applied to certain sets or whole groups of people or nations who suffer from rabid forms of ultra-nationalism that prevent them from joining with their fellow men in any common object. There is more anxiety perhaps to-day than ever in the world before, and peace and all that is associated with peace will be needed in order to cure this condition. On shelter, we have some knowledge so far as its need is concerned, for in our own country we know the lack of it—not total lack but the permanent overcrowding which for any section of the community can be so deadly. In terms of death, it means an increase in the infant mortality rate of 31 out of each 1,000 infants born. But it is of food, and its   position in the world to-day that I would like to speak. We have heard from the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) this phrase: ""We must be prosperous together or impoverished together."" In order to understand what prosperity we seek, or what impoverishment we risk, it is perhaps worth while examining conditions as they are to-day, or as they were just before the war. It was stated in the Gracious Speech that the ravages of war have made the world food supplies insufficient to meet our demands. There may be a fallacy in that statement. It is a statement that is easily misunderstood, and it should not foe taken to mean, for a single moment, that the position before the war was satisfactory. All our investigations show that, in 1936, two people out of three in the world were hungry, although two people out of three work on the land in order to produce food. It is, indeed, true to say that some of the terrors of these new methods of destroying ourselves pale into insignificance when considered in the light of what we have always suffered, stealthily and quietly, and as a result of stale custom of which we had no terror at all. The wings of hunger have always been spread over the world, and under their shade millions every year have died; not only in simple numbers of 60,000 from one bomb, but millions each year, and hundreds of millions have survived to grow up crippled, deformed and diseased. We knew, even before the ravages of the present war, that we required very considerable increases in the world food supplies if we were to have any safe or secure foundations of peace. We needed an increase even of cereals, the commonest and cheapest of our foods, of 50 per cent. In milk and milk products, we needed an increase of 1½ times; fruit and vegetables, three times; meat, fish and poultry, 1¼ times. I cannot share the optimism of some people who feel that if all goes well we shall soon bring about a happy millennium when all men will cease to be hungry and no man will suffer from lack of food. However much we coordinate our effort, it is going to take 50 or 60 years before we can be really successful. If we do not combine to help those who need our assistance, hundreds of years must go by, and this reproach and shame will still confront us. It is said by some people that you can use the consumption of milk and milk products as the yard-stick of the nation's health, and there are some even who would suggest that you might use it as a measure of its culture. From either point of view, it is interesting to note that the consumption in our own country before the war per head per year was 700 pints of milk and milk products and in the United States it was 640. Italy is very far behind with a 183 and that very much discussed country, Bulgaria, with 52. If civilisation and the consumption of milk be allied, we have to be profoundly sorry for Japan with eight pints of milk per head per year. There are other countries, like India, where the position is, and always has been, deplorable. The figures available suggest that half the population never see milk or milk products at all, and with the remaining half—I am specifying one particular survey only—only 25 per cent. have a consumption of one-third of a pint of milk per week. It is not only in this particular and important food that we see an unequal distribution about the world. This unequal distribution must always make for jealousy and envy and create a condition of affairs that makes strife possible. The whole available sugar that used to be exported from the Carribeans was taken up by the United States and Britain to the extent of 83 per cent., that is to say that 10 per cent. of the population of the world consumed 83 per cent. of most of the available sugar. Of the available orange crops exported in the world 95 per cent. was taken up by Britain and America, and countries on the Western coast of Europe. For all other fruits, the figures and the position were much the same. It is said of edible fats and oils that the struggle for them really does constitute the struggle to live. We see in the years 1934, 1935 and 1936 the world manufactured something like three and a quarter million tons of margarine and of this 90 per cent. was taken up by North America, Britain, Japan and Western Europe. Much the same figure was true also of the total amount of whale oil used in those years. There were some countries that not only produced food, but exported it to a great extent. We find that they exported it to the detriment of their own people. A typical case might be cited   in the case of South Africa, where, with a population of 10,000,000 people of whom 2,000,000 are white, there was quite enough fruit for everybody, if there had been none exported, but the amount of fruit exported was sufficient for 5,000,000 people. They manufactured there in those years before the war enough butter for three and a half million people but exported enough for one million. Of meat, fish and eggs they had not enough for themselves, and yet their export of these was considerable. The position in Britain, I am sure, is better known to most hon. Members than it is to me. I would simply say that it has been most gratifying to health workers like myself to note during the war years the very remarkable improvement that has occurred particularly in certain sections of the population such as among our young children and expectant women. A notable factor is the improvement that may be effected when there is distribution according to need. In fact, it has been pointed out to me that whereas it costs us £12,500 to kill a Nazi, we were satisfied to keep mothers alive for a few shillings. Adjudged by pre-war standards, we estimate that this country requires a very considerable increase in milk, eggs, fat, vegetables and meat. If we are to have peace and stability, and the Charter is to mean anything, then the fundamental things which lie behind peace, or will arise from peace, must be observed. Firstly, the whole of the world must produce very much more food; secondly, importing countries will have to produce much more for themselves than they have done in the past. This of course gives us an opportunity of improving our agriculture far more than we have done so far. Further, exporting countries must satisfy the needs of their own people before they feel themselves free to sell abroad. Lastly, that science must now be wedded to agriculture. I would not like to give the impression that this lady science is free to wed anybody. She has been so long and deeply associated with war that she might be considered to be married to it, but a divorce might well be desirable, and I think we shall have a more fruitful union in the future if we achieve it. One would like to see my hon Friend the Member for Ipswich (Mr. Stokes) associated with  beating swords into ploughshares. We would expect the harvesters and tractors and binders to roll out. We shall get searching and constructive criticism, no doubt, by the right hon. Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill). In conclusion, although this has been such a humdrum sort of subject, I would say that the solution of world hunger must surely mean the solution of the problem of foreign policy, and whoever solves, or partially solves, the problems associated with foreign policy will bring us nearer abiding peace and will have the undying gratitude of those who come after us.
