gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I begin with the diffidence expected of an hon. Member making his maiden speech. I have the honour to represent the people of East Flintshire. I think that they are some of the kindest and friendliest of people to be found in Wales. I understand that in a maiden speech it is customary to refer to one's predecessor. I can with great sincerity refer to Mrs. Eirene White, because she was held in high affection and great esteem in East Flintshire. People of all political opinions have testified to her integrity, her conscientiousness, and her industry. She is much admired for her work in the Welsh Office, where she did signal service for all of Wales. It was very widely regretted that she decided to step down at an age relatively early in a politician's life. She will be sorely missed by many people in East Flintshire. I shall have a very difficult job in living up to the reputation which she justly earned in her 20 years' service as Member for East Flint. My constituency faces a very exciting future with a potential which may exceed that of all the rest of Wales. Our Broughton factory sells so many Hawker-Siddeley executive jets that another 1,500 jobs are to be created. Our textile mills occupy an important place in the local economy maintaining hundreds of women and girls in employment. The justifiably famous Shotton Steelworks is supreme in its production of sheet steel and the new discovery, Stelvetite. It fully deserves the £40 million development plan announced before the General Election. I hope that the change of Government does not mean a change of plan and investment. Nevertheless, it is felt in East Flintshire that we need a further diversification of industry. This is why, with qualifications, I welcome the proposed Dee Barrage and New Town project. My priority is strong   Welsh Office control of the development throughout. I want to see no laissez-faire hotch-potch, no bonanza for the get-rich-quick developer. It would be an appalling error if our fair county were exploited for the benefit of the richer Merseyside commuters and the Wirral's gin and tonic brigade. We have a language and a culture to protect. But steel and the steel men have made East Flintshire what it is and will largely dictate what it will be for at least a generation. I hope, therefore, that the House will listen to what I have to say on this vital industry. I have worked at a blast furnace, and my father and my father's father each worked in steel. All of us at the moment in East Flintshire are puzzled and perturbed by the lack of clarity concerning Government policy on steel. The fear is that the Government will sell off, possibly at a knock-down price, the giant Shotton works and unscramble the new products division. It is largely felt on Deeside that at the Shotton works insufficient money is spent on the steelmaking processes themselves. The men are rightly worried. The men would also like to see an improvement in the retirement pensions granted by the British Steel Corporation. In summary, the Deeside steel men feel that the Government's steel policy as it now stands is too vague by half. As we are debating education today, I feel I should tell the House that I have been and still am, for a short time anyway, an organiser for the National Union of Teachers. I interpret the Government's secondary school policy as a severe body blow to educational advance today. It is a retrograde step which is an affront to the vast majority of teacher opinion, and it might be termed an incredible misjudgment of the national mood as it now stands. I fear that it heralds a social petrification, when the national need is for fluidity and mixing. I have always regarded the case against selection as one of wasted ability. At 11 years of age I failed the selection processes current in my county of Flintshire. I went to a secondary modern school. Fortunately, I did well, and within the year I was promoted—if that is the word—to the local grammar school. But what haunts me is that I left behind some 40 classmates of equal or greater ability than myself, and I think there is  the heart and the nub of the matter when one considers selectivity. Those whom I left behind were denied the chance of the prize O- and A-levels which we know are now the social currencies by which we purchase privilege, favour and esteem. I found from my own experience that selection at 11-plus is open at times to huge error. It assesses only partly the innate ability, just as it brutally assesses the influence of the child's environment. Selection is measuring a child's home life, the quality and the interests of the child's parents, the state of the neighbourhood and its amenities as well as the quality of the primary school. I found that an I.Q. owes as much to nurture as it does to nature. My failure at the selection process is still a very hurtful memory. There was the shame of failure the evident familial disappointment and the actual and imagined ""tut-tutting"" of the neighbourhood's street gossips. I should like to try to forget the statistical and slide rule approach to selection and consider the effect psychologically, physically and socially upon the children themselves—indeed, upon their whole families—because one's whole circle of playmates and friends was disrupted, altered and pressured. Uniforms, bus trips—indeed the very neighbourhoods of the schools themselves—often crudely undermined the carefree disposition of the primary school life that one had previously shared. Childhood is time irredeemable. Why should 1970's child be intimidated unnecessarily by the torture of selection, by examination or by stealthy termly tests? I am thinking of those in the vast new owner-occupier estates springing up all over my constituency. They are young, go-ahead, carefree, intelligent folk who make up the families in those estates. They care deeply about the schooling of their children. I know that they will never forgive the Government if they adopt the principles of selection again. They do not want at the heart of their homes the downright unhappiness, tension and nervous strain which selection at 11 entails. If the Government will heed neither the nervous cry of the child nor the worries of the parent, will they consider the professionalism of the teaching profession itself? Let us remember that   when one discriminates against children, one discriminates also against the teachers themselves. For over three years I have visited hundreds of schools and have met thousands of teachers in Wales, Lancashire and Cheshire. I find that they are solidly against back-pedalling on the previous Secretary of State's universal comprehensive schemes, and not least the primary school teachers. Indeed, I would say that the mind of the forward-looking teacher boggles at the proposal to turn the educational clock back a whole generation. Far too many youngsters are battling against social environmental odds, as it is, and it is very rough luck on them that the new Government are raising further hurdles for them. Under the new Government, all over the country the lights of educational advance are being dimmed, and on the shoulders of the current Secretary of State a very heavy burden lies. Perhaps it is for her to decide whether she wishes to enter our history books as an educational Canute. I find that it is difficult to resist saying that the Government Front Bench are walking backwards with their faces to the future.
