gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing my first words to this House and in asking for the indulgence of hon. Members, I am conscious of my inadequacy to follow in the footsteps of my predecessor in Morecambe and Lonsdale. His great personal courage in overcoming his affliction of blindness and his devotion to public service won him the respect and admiration of all hon. Members, and of his constituents and of members of the British Legion and those many thousands of blind people whom he has done and is doing so much to help. A tremendously important key to the question that is being discussed this afternoon is the reason why France backed out of the negotiations in November. There seem to be three possible reasons. The first is that in view of the constitutional crisis which the French had suffered so recently, they were not prepared to continue with the negotiations until  they had further time to make up their minds exactly what they wanted. If this is the reason, there is great hope in future negotiations. A second possible reason is that the French did not, and do not, have the slightest intention of allowing the United Kingdom to join the ""club"" and of allowing the United Kingdom, as well as Germany, to compete in their home market. If this is true, it raises serious problems for British industry. I speak as an industrialist. I have an interest in and a day-to-day knowledge of the electrical industry. If that is the reason, it will be necessary for us as an industry, and. presumably, necessary for other industries also, to take action to protect themselves in third markets. Such action could possibly not be in the interests of the freedom of world trade, and possibly not in the interests of the freedom of German or French trade either. A third possible reason may have been an attempt on the part of the French to drive a harder bargain. I am particularly alarmed if this should be the case, because in future negotiations we may find ourselves making concessions which possibly we might regret. One possible concession which we could make would be to provide French overseas territories with development capital. That would be all right, if we could afford it. But another possibility could be that, through the working of the managed agricultural market, we might permit France to export agricultural products to this country. I hope my right hon. Friend the Paymaster-General will never consider such a concession. Let us get it in the right perspective economically. The Economist intelligence unit showed that the effect of a European Free Trade area would be to increase the gross national product to £28 million, instead of £27 million if we had no such area. I have a great many farmers in my constituency, and I do not think that their livelihood should be jeopardised to achieve a gain of this order. If there is or if there is not to be a Free Trade Area in Europe—I hope there will be— inevitably British industry will face severe competition in third markets. This may mean that there will have to be certain rather uncomfortable attempts at co-operation between British firms in   an attempt to rationalise production and attain some economies of scale in order to do that. I hope this will come about as smoothly as possible and that the Government will give assistance where and if they can. We in industry must face the fact that this is a tremendous time in our history. It is not only our duty to safeguard the interests of our shareholders, we must also safeguard the interests of the many thousands of employed people and ensure that we continue to provide them with expanding employment. A breakdown of these negotiations presents a tremendous danger to us all. It presents a danger to the tourist trade in Morecambe and to farming in Lonsdale. Whether one is a pensioner or an industrialist, the challenge has to be faced. On the other hand, it would seem that there is no doubt that freer trade in Europe, more or less on the lines which my right hon. Friend has been following in the past, is highly desirable both politically and economically. It is certainly a politician's dream, and it is also an economist's dream. Speaking as a practical man, I am always afraid that the dreams of economists may turn into nightmares. But I know that my right hon. Friend will bear in mind the particular problems which people face. I hope that he will not be discouraged or dismayed by the difficulty of the negotiations. I think the country owes him a great debt for all he has done in the difficult and perhaps sometimes extremely depressing negotiations described in the White Paper. But I say to him that he should go out and try again, secure in the knowledge that the country knows he has the interests of everyone in mind, and that he will continue to do a good job on their behalf.
