gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Bromsgrove (Miss Kirkbride) on her excellent maiden speech. Speaking for so long without notes is a great achievement and I want that to go on record, as she was far too bashful to do so herself. I will not try to emulate that record. We share a common profession, and perhaps that is a sign that my background is in radio, where one would never go into a studio and try to speak for more than 20 seconds without a script—I shall be more or less following one this morning. The hon. Lady spoke a great deal of sense on many issues. I have not had the pleasure of visiting Bromsgrove, but it sounds delightful. I am sorry about the trouble that she is having with the new recreation centre. She said a lot of good things about green taxes, with which I am sure all hon. Members would concur. Many new Members are hoping to speak this morning and, as I have experienced being squeezed out, my speech will be scripted but brief. I have the great honour and  privilege of representing the people of Exeter here at Westminster—a privilege that has been enjoyed, sadly, only once by a Labour Member, who is now my hon. Friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich (Mrs. Dunwoody). For the past 27 years, Exeter was served by a one-nation Conservative of the finest sort, Sir John Hannam. He was a conscientious constituency Member and contributed a great deal to a number of areas of our public life. As hon. Members will be aware, he worked particularly hard in the area of disability, for which I am sure that we would all want to pay him a warm tribute. Sir John was no less active within his party and was, until his retirement, secretary of the 1922 Committee—a somewhat less onerous task now, I fear. I have another rather more personal reason to be grateful to Sir John. He played no part in—indeed, he was completely absent from—the campaign of my Conservative opponent in the recent general election. I wish Sir John and his wife Vanessa a long and happy retirement on the Isle of Wight. Exeter, as I am sure you were aware, Mr. Deputy Speaker, is one of Britain's finest cathedral cities. At the risk of being controversial, it is also the county town of England's most beautiful county, Devon. Despite the worst efforts of the Victorians, the Luftwaffe and post-war planners, Exeter remains one of the most attractive cities in Britain in which to live. We have a popular city centre, a large and successful university and a very high number of sunshine hours—second, I believe, only to Eastbourne. Taken together, Exeter's many assets mean that we usually come top or near the top of those regular quality-of-life surveys. We are also blessed—unlike the hon. Member for Bromsgrove, by the sound of it—with a model Labour council, which has just kept its council tax pegged to a zero increase for the third year running. Despite Exeter's many perfections, we share with other towns and cities throughout the country some of the social and economic problems that make the quality of life for those who suffer them anything but perfect. This Budget is an important first step towards combating those problems. The release of capital receipts to spend on social housing will be welcomed by the more than 1,600 families in my constituency who are on Exeter city council's housing waiting list. The allocation of £2.3 billion extra for schools will be welcomed by Exeter parents, who are fed up with their children being taught in dilapidated classrooms, without the books and resources that they need and facing cuts in teaching staff. The extra money will give new hope to parents in areas such as Topsham, who have been waiting for two generations for a new school. Together with the fulfilment of our pledge to cut class sizes, that will make a real difference to the education of our children. My local health authority, North and East Devon, is one of the many that are in financial crisis. It is proposing severe cuts in front-line services, particularly those for people with learning disabilities. The £1.2 billion extra pledged for the health service should at least help to ease that crisis. Hundreds of my younger constituents—many of whom have not had a proper job or training since leaving school—will benefit from the welfare-to-work programme. Single parents who are caught in the poverty trap, as we heard, will have the chance to get back into the labour market. Exeter businesses remember well the boom and bust of the 1980s and early 1990s. They welcome the long-termism enshrined in this Budget. They are grateful that under a Labour Government they will be paying the lowest corporation tax of any of our major competitors. My constituents, along with most economists, the Confederation of British Industry and others, recognise that, at this stage of the economic cycle, revenue-raising measures are essential if we are to avoid the busts of the Conservative years. Given the Government's commitment to the environment and to improving the nation's health, higher levies on petrol and tobacco are both fair and sensible. My constituents, who suffer the pollution and congestion caused by the large number of private cars carrying commuters into Exeter every day, might have welcomed more green measures, but they will be reassured by the Chancellor's pledge to consider those further before the next Budget. Exeter drinkers, who are celebrating my city's excellent annual festival, will be toasting the Chancellor for avoiding slapping extra duty on alcohol. They and my superb local cider and real ale producers will await the outcome of his review of alcohol duties with great expectation. Householders, particularly pensioners and others on fixed incomes, will welcome our fulfilment of the election pledge to cut value added tax on fuel and my gas users will look forward to substantial falls in their bills, thanks to the abolition of the gas levy. No one, not least my constituents, likes to feel that he or she is living on the backs of his or her children or grandchildren. The last Government's public sector borrowing requirement was unacceptably high for this stage of the economic cycle. On top of everything else that the Chancellor achieved in this Budget, he will have slashed the public sector borrowing requirement from £23 billion in the last financial year to £5.4 billion in the next. That is a tremendous achievement. I feel privileged to have spoken on this historic Budget, which even The Daily Telegraph struggled to criticise and which has been misconstrued by some people as too careful, even conservative, when in fact it is deeply radical. It is radical because it releases Britain from its short-termist past and sets us on course for stable and long-term prosperity, from which all our citizens will benefit. I therefore commend the Budget to the House.
