gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, have to ask for the indulgence of the House on addressing it for the first time. That is a purely personal need, and the need would be as acute if I were addressing the House on some unimportant point as it is in connection with such an important matter as this. But it is not unfitting that, in a Debate as important as this, should be heard some of us who have not been here before, particularly some of us who have come to this House from constituencies which have recently changed their minds. There are many of us on this side of the House—I am one—who had behind them no strong sectional block vote, but who were sent here, and could only have been sent here, by the steady support of all sections of the community. It is most important that the common people of our Allies should realise what is happening in this country. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) said that perhaps the present composition of this House might be a transient phenomenon, and the hon. Member who has just preceded me also tended, I thought, to be offering a sort of apology in advance to the United States of America for this country having elected this Parliament, which is responsible for the present Government. But there is nothing transient in the deep yearning of millions of people in this country and throughout Europe for two things—that man should learn to be the master of material things, and that he should work out an international order. There is nothing transient in the determination of the people to attain both those aims. There is nothing new in those aims; they were the hopes of millions at the end of the last war, but those hopes were disappointed. Perhaps those hopes were fixed on a more spectacular solution in both cases and that solution failed, but this time there is a quiet confidence that those aims can, in a practical way, be attained. Fresh heart was given to the people during the darkest hours of the war as it became evident that something   was happening which some of us had almost regarded as beyond the bounds of possibility for many years to come—that the British Commonwealth, the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and the Republic of China would, joined and strengthened by liberated France, at the end of the war be united in leading the world towards a peaceful solution of its problems. That was the hope which inspired and encouraged many people, in all countries, to survive the war. Something seems to have happened to shake that hope, and we hear that there are disagreement and uncertainty, and that the hope is dashed. But what has happened? Nothing that one can pin down as a practical breakdown, nothing irrevocable or irreparable has happened; there have been some incidents, trivialities which have been exaggerated; there have been some statements which may have been quoted out of their context; but nothing yet has happened to make the world lose heart. Now is the chance for moral leadership to restore that confidence and hope. There is nothing new in those moral aspirations. They were expressed, if I may be allowed to recall it to the House, very long ago by another weary warrior, King David, who, when he asked to be given a drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, would not drink it when it was brought to him and said: Is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives? and poured it out as a libation unto the Lord. That is the spirit in which ordinary people throughout the world hoped that the problems of peace would be tackled at the end of the war. They hoped that such benefits and advantages as might fall to us to offset the fearful losses and destruction of war might be poured out as a libation for the benefit of the whole of humanity. Now is the chance for that to be done. We have heard so often of the need for free access to raw materials and to markets; let us now add to that free access to scientific knowledge. Let the republic of knowledge open its doors to the whole world, and encourage people to forget these trivial differences. The ordinary people feel that this is humanity's last chance to order its life on moral principles. We used to be told that we could not solve practical problems  by moral uplift. We have made some progress there, too, because politicians, psychologists, industrial efficiency experts and physiologists tell us that we can solve practical problems by moral uplift. One of the biggest practical problems before the world at the present time is to get people back to useful work, the sort of work that they want to do and the whole world needs. People want to do something to restore the damage of war and restore the abundance which is possible. If we get a moral lead now, that moral lead will do more to restore the production of goods and send people back to work than all the industrial efficiency experts in the world. That is the chance that is open to this country now. If the Prime Minister seizes this opportunity to get a moral lead given to the world, he will get millions of young people, with new energy and enthusiasm, down to the ordinary tasks of life that will produce that abundance which can remove the causes of quarrelling, and send them enthusiastically forward, as we used to sing, With flame of freedom on their lips, And light of knowledge in their eyes.
