gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am reluctantly forced to add to the anxieties of a maiden speech, by venturing on what might be regarded as controversial ground, but it cannot be helped, because I believe that this Motion should not be a subject for uncritical assent. The hon. Member who has just spoken called attention to the difference between the attitude, expectancy and hope which obtained in this House in 1918, when the Covenant of the League of Nations was under consideration, and the atmosphere that obtains to-day. It is an inescapable fact that there is a notable lack, by comparison, of popular enthusiasm and of popular optimism for the Charter, and I believe that, as usual, the popular instincts are soundly based.  So, although I shall vote for the Motion, I shall do so with qualified enthusiasm. I shall do so because there is offered to us, at this moment, only this one alternative, only this instalment of collective security. Obviously, for Great Britain to fail to ratify, would only cause discouragement and confusion. I feel that it is none the less very important, if not more important, that we should recognise and emphasise what this proposed organisation is and not pretend that it is what it is not. What it is not, is, I suggest, a world authority designed to ensure peace on principles of objective justice. What it is, on the contrary, to be quite blunt, is an old-fashioned alliance of great Powers piously hoping that they will love and cherish each other ""for ever and ever. Amen."" They promise to love each other, and to honour each other, but to obey nobody. This, in rather different language, is precisely what Article 27 says. It confers, as we know, the right of absolute veto on any of the big Powers and it ensures, therefore, that no decision is ever likely to be taken that is sufficiently controversial and, therefore, sufficiently important, to excite the dissent of any one of the big Powers. I have been exhorted—we have all been exhorted—not to go into the detailed criticism, to which, from time to time, this Chanter has been subjected. I think that much of that criticism has been justified, but there is one criticism which I think is of extreme importance and must not be ignored, and that is that the position of the International Court of Justice itself is curiously helpless. It has no executive authority. One is bound to ask what can conceivably be hoped for from a concept of permissible authority. All its rulings and all its interpretations of law are only valid subject to the concurrence of the big Powers, that is to say, subject only to the concurrence of certain potential litigants. It is also relevant to ask what is there to be hoped for from promises of security which are founded on nothing else than the mere hope of five great nations that their interests will never clash. It is, I know, easy to make this general criticism. I appreciate fully the enormous significance of getting 50 nations together agreeing to sacrifice the right, however illusory, to conduct independently their affairs. I realise too how enormously diffi-   cult it is to persuade 50 nations in this time of mutual suspicion and fear to embark on any system of disarmament, but something has happened which should make it much less difficult, and that is that the nations of the world, all except one, now are disarmed. Disarmament and armament are relative terms. In the age of tanks, a country armed with bows and arrows is a disarmed country. In the atomic age, a country armed with tanks is a disarmed country. I suggest that it is no exaggeration to maintain that at this moment of time—I do not say how long it will last—Powers like Russia and even Great Britain are as helpless, so fax as fighting strength goes, as Switzerland and Luxembourg, and that to talk even in terms of Great Powers is to talk in obsolete terms. I suggest that if this is not a revolution, changing the picture of foreign politics and urgently requiring not only new thinking but new action, then there will never be such a revolution. I believe, moreover, that this moment of common helplessness is not only, as the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) said, our last chance, but that it is also our first real opportunity. I cannot believe, for example, that if Marshal Stalin is as longheaded as he is reputed to be, he will be content any longer to rest the security of his country on the veto allotted to him on the Security Council. I am convinced that he, too, at this moment, will be taking fresh stock, and that this is the moment of all moments when he and the representatives of all other great Powers might profitably be approached. It is hard to believe that he would be averse from grasping this opportunity of transferring the one monstrous menace that exists, from the hands of an independent foreign Power into the hands of an international authority. It can be done, but the initiative has to be taken, and I sincerely hope that this country will take it. If Marshal Stalin's object is still, as I believe it has always been, to protect his country from foreign aggression, and to secure for it a long period of productive peace, he will not, I am convinced, be so difficult as his enemies might fear. It might be asked why should the United States, in their singular position, be prepared to hand over this weapon which gives them, at the moment, pre-eminence? I suggest that they might well  do so, because they, too, are conscious, no doubt, that their monopoly might not be long lived. Moreover, it is worth remembering that the monopoly, and that the manufacture, of this atomic bomb is a State and not a private enterprise, and that the State is not, therefore, likely to view the irresponsible production of it abroad with any welcoming eye. Since the first use of this bomb we have been told, everywhere and constantly, that the people of the world have now finally to choose between co-operation and annihilation. It is not true. The people of the world have already chosen, even before the discovery of this bomb. There was no more profound passage in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs than that in which he called attention to the fact that the ordinary men and women do not start wars. They merely fight and die in them. That is why I believe that nothing contributes, and can contribute, more substantially to the maintenance of peace and the spread of genuine democratic government. If it is not the people who may be the obstacle, and who have yet to make their choice, who is it? I humbly suggest that it is the Foreign Offices of the world. They operate according to a tradition, and it is not a popular tradition. It is a tradition dating back to the Italy of the 15th century and it has barely changed. It is a tradition for which the popular current term is ""realism,"" I confess that whenever I hear a mention of realism, I have a premonition of impending mischief and violence. It was realistic to condone the Japanese action in Manchuria. It must have been realism. It was realistic to declare for the path of non-intervention in Spain. It was realistic to encourage and strengthen the incipient Herr Hitler in Germany because of the realistic calculation that possibly his weapons might be turned East against the Bolsheviks. To all those of us who survive, when we survey the long record of disaster that the calculations of realism have put upon our shoulders, it is not altogether un-understandable that there should be a certain degree of mistrust in the judgment of the Foreign Office. I am not making an attack on individuals; it is an attack on a tradition. I am attacking the tradition of expediency and opportunism. I am convinced that the contribution of the ordinary man, especi-   ally in the realm of politics, is fundamentally a moral contribution. He thinks in moral terms because he has the advantage of being uninstructed and cannot see the wood for the trees. I cannot but think that considerable advantage might accrue by the introduction of a few moral simpletons into the Foreign Office. What is needed now? I am certain that it is not a shrewd stroke, the stroke of astute traditional diplomacy. What is needed is an act of forcible, even spectacular imagination. I hope that the Foreign Secretary will publicly affirm and endorse the opinion, which I believe to be widespread, that much of the Charter is already obsolete and ripe for immediate revision; that this revision must primarily remove the power of individual veto granted in Article27; that the atomic bomb should be forthwith transferred to international control and manufactured on territory especially internationalised for the purpose; that the nations shall submit to an international inspectorate to ensure agains secret manufacture; and that this country, for one, is readly to recognise the supremacy of an international authority, and to surrender, moreover, the requisite degree of her own sovereignty in consequence. Such proposals, I suggest with all diffidence, should not be made through the usual channels; they should be made publicly to the heads of States with the avowed and unashamed purpose of mobilising the pressure of public opinion in every country. There is at this time a vast deal of popular feeling waiting to be canalised. Let it be canalised behind the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary of Great Britain.
