gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
At this moment I recall vividly a character in J. M. Barrie's play ""What Every Woman Knows."" It will be remembered  that David Wylie told his friends that every time he was called upon to make a speech in public he was so nervous that he could never overcome starting with the phrase, ""In rising for to make a few remarks."" I am bound to say that in addressing the Committee for the first time I experience a somewhat similar apprehension, but I am fortified in the knowledge that I can and do respectfully claim the kindly and traditional indulgence of hon. Members. Some 16 or 17 years ago one of His Majesty's representatives, a Governor of one of our Colonies in East Africa. propounded the astonishing doctrine that it was the duty of a Government to tax the people to the utmost limits of their capacity. At that time I was in business in East Africa, and I also happened to be President of the Chamber of Commerce and other public bodies. In that capacity it fell to me to reply to this extraordinary doctrine. I cannot say whether anything I said then had any effect. Sufficient to say that we heard no more about it, and I felt that never again should I have to refer to such a strange doctrine. Since 1945 I must confess that I have gained the impression that His Majesty's Government and the Chancellor of the Exchequer are imbued with exactly the same idea. The Budget presented yesterday reinforces my opinion. Surely the primary duty of any Government is to run the country efficiently at the lowest possible cost and be absolutely ruthless in cutting out extravagances and waste. Quite simply, it should be to keep taxation at the lowest level. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is, above all, a trustee of the people's money, but—and I say this with great respect—I find little evidence that he has approached his great problems in this way at all. Yesterday, we heard a great deal of talk about democracy, but there is a very strong tendency these days for the Executive to act in a way entirely contrary to democratic ideas. People are told to do this and do that, and are being continually instructed to pay this and pay that. I feel that this tendency ought to be retarded and, indeed, reversed. Yesterday also the Chancellor of the Exchequer spent some time delivering a homily on surpluses. I fully appreciate that this is the Keynesian theory of budgetary control and economic policy. Let me be frank and say that I have never accepted the Keynesian theory as a sound long-term policy. I wish to emphasise the phrase ""long-term policy."" I am not being wise after the event because, ever since it was promulgated, I have spoken and written against it as an unwise policy from the long-term point of view. The theory of surpluses is supposed to maintain high employment. Yesterday, the Chancellor emphasised that aspect very strongly, and I understand that in his broadcast last night he also emphasised that the policy of surpluses was entirely responsible for the maintainence of full employment. That cannot be the case. As one of my hon. Friends said, it is on record that responsible Ministers of the Crown have stated that if it were not for Marshall Aid there would be 1,500,000 to 2,000,000 unemployed. If that is so—and it comes from very responsible sources one cannot see how full employment has been maintained as a result of the Keynesian theory. It is also supposed to prevent inflation, but has it done so? I cannot accept that, and I would go so far as to say that inflation is with us now almost as acutely as in past years. One gets evidence of that from rising prices and the continued pressure for higher wages. In view of the cost of living, one cannot blame people for pressing for higher remuneration. A further point is the continual lowering of the purchasing power of the pound. These are all very dangerous inflationary trends. The policy of surpluses has not encouraged saving. In the Economic Survey the country is asked to save more. I cannot see how that is possible in face of the present high taxation. Furthermore, the policy of budgeting for surpluses in the way it has been done provides absolutely no incentives to the people, and that is one of the most important things for us to deal with at the present time. Surely the proper way to encourage savings and to provide incentives, not only to the individual but to industry as a whole, is to get Government expenditure as low as possible, with consequent lowering of taxation. This leads me to the subject of exports. I was glad to hear my right hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Leicester, South-East (Captain Waterhouse) say that we want very much higher sales in the home market, which will help the export trade. I believe the time has come for us  to get back as quickly as we can to the old, well-tried view, which has stood the test of many years, that exports are essentially the overspill of the home market. Greater incentives both to industry as a whole and to individuals lead to greater production, and that is one of the main ways of getting down costs. With lower costs the natural corollary is lower prices. This encourages in every possible way a great upsurge of production. I do not deny the great effort and the success which have already been achieved, but I believe most sincerely that with additional incentives such as I have indicated there would be a much greater upsurge in the country which would bring more to the home market and leave a still bigger amount for the export trade. I will give an example from the motor industry. I have here a letter from the director of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, which says that during 1949 the output of the whole of the motor industry was: cars, 412,000; commercial vehicles, including public service vehicles, 218,000—total, 630,000 vehicles. The letter states that the present capacity of the industry is sufficient to make 800,000 units; that is, that current production falls short of what could be achieved by approximately 170,000 vehicles. Surely, if encouragement was given to the industry to produce to the fullest capacity the industry would be able to bring down costs and lower prices, and greater sales to the home and export markets would be possible. I was surprised to hear the Chancellor say yesterday that so many commercial vehicles were being sold at home. I do not know the reason, but it may well be that the price of commercial vehicles is still too high for people abroad. I want to refer to two particular points in the Budget. Like every other hon. Member, I am delighted to learn that the cut in the housing programme is to be restored, but I feel most strongly that 200,000 houses a year are still far too few. In my election address I characterised the housing situation as a social evil of the first magnitude. Since I have had the honour of representing Spelthorne I have, naturally, had wider opportunities of seeing housing conditions. Every week I spend Saturday visiting people in their homes to see for myself. I can only characterise the shocking conditions of over-crowding in which people are living   as a crime, and I am sure that that opinion is shared by all hon. Members. If this colossal expenditure is necessary—I admit it only for the sake of argument-1 suggest that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has his priorities wrong and I would ask him whether it is possible to tackle the housing problem with greater vigour. One further point is the question of Post-war Credits. When sterling balances and unrequited exports are discussed we frequently hear the explanation that those are debts of honour. I often ask myself whether the debt of honour is due to us or from us. Be that as it may, Post-war Credits are debts of honour to our own people. I feel very strongly that we ought to be paying more attention to our own people than we seem to be doing. I put forward to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the suggestion of a possible approach to the question of these Postwar Credits. Would it not be possible tc show that we do regard them as a debt of honour to our own people that must eventually be met, and to issue in exchange for, or to cover, those Post-war Credits some form of National Savings certificate which might carry a small interest of, say, 1 per cent., repayable in five or 10 years? That would not be unreasonable. The 1 per cent. would cost approximately £6 million per annum. I would gladly see part of the impost of 9d. on a gallon of petrol go towards covering that small sum, because it would show that we really feel that this debt that we owe to the people is just and fair and that it should be clearly recognised as such. I hope that I have not trespassed on the kind indulgence of hon. Members or taken advantage of their courtesy. If I have, I can only apologise, through you, Major Milner, to hon. Members, and say that if any excuse is needed it is this: I believe that we are a great people, all of us, irrespective of party From 1939 to 1945, our people were called upon to bear tremendous burdens, which they carried with honour, and, I believe, with glory. Since 1945 they have been forced to bear tremendous burdens of a different type but none the less severe, financial burdens in the way of taxation, due, I suggest, to the wrong policies of His Majesty's Government. I believe that our people are now near to breaking point. If the break comes, it will not only be a great tragedy for a great people and a great nation, but a catastrophe to the whole world.
