gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am another new Member making his first speech in this House, and I crave the indulgence of hon. Members in any mistake that I might make. I suppose that North Norfolk, which I represent, is one of the loveliest constituencies in the whole of East Anglia, with its long coastline from Wells-next-the-Sea down to what is known as Horsey Gap, including those delightful seaside resorts, Blakeney, Sheringham, Cromer and Bacton. In addition to that lovely coastline, which has problems of erosion with which I hope to deal at a later date, we also have in my constituency the Broadland area. I think that almost every hon. Member in the House knows of that wonderful stretch of 200 miles of river and Broads that have such a fascination for so many tourists and holidaymakers. Indeed, my constituency, with its coastal belt and its Broadland area, is the mecca for tens of thousands of  people from London and the industrial Midlands who spend their holidays within the area. North Norfolk welcomes this tourist trade and has set out to try to attract more of this trade because it is essential for the well-being of the area. This is a seasonal trade and, therefore, underlying the minds of my constituents, there is the desire for work all the year round rather than just during the hectic three months' period which constitutes the summer season. The other big industry in my constituency is agriculture. This is an industry on which I have heard little comment during the debate on the Address. Agriculture, over the years, has played a tremendous part in helping to meet our balance of payments problem. It is an expanding industry. Year by year its output increases. It is an industry not backward-looking but forward-acting, with investment in capital for buildings and equipment. I suppose that today it is the most highly mechanised agriculture in the world. Certainly, in conjunction with its intensified mechanisation there has been an ever-increasing output of production. I suppose one could say that if every industry in the country had increased its ratio of production on a par with that of British agriculture we probably would not be faced today with any of the adverse balance of payments, which is causing such considerable concern at this time. Agriculture still has a great future of intensified production and one is interested in every attempt made to improve the quality of cattle and the strains of the grain sown in our fields. We therefore welcome that section of the Gracious Speech in which the Government indicate their desire to continue the system of guarantees under the existing Acts and to promote measures to secure better marketing arrangements for farm products. The fact that the Government have shown their complete confidence in maintaining the prosperous industry which I am proud to represent will give great satisfaction to everyone concerned with agriculture on both the employers and the employees? sides. I come from a constituency which was represented in the House by a veteran   trade union leader who was respected throughout the country and almost throughout the world, in the person of the late President of the National Union of Agricultural Workers, Mr. Edwin Gooch. His desire was always to further the cause of agriculture. In the debates on the Agriculture Act, 1947, which the then Minister of Agriculture piloted through the House, he played no small part in trying to convince the Government of the day of the need for such measures. The fact that the industry has continued to progress in the intervening years and that this Measure substantially remains the same today as when it was passed in 1947 proves its value conclusively. The assurance from the present Government that they will maintain the prosperity of the industry, as set out in a paragraph of the Gracious Speech, will give tremendous confidence to everyone concerned. I was not surprised to see that paragraph in the Gracious Speech when I realised that the present Minister of Agriculture was a junior Minister under the Minister of Agriculture in the 1945–51 Government. I wish him well in his responsibility. I would only add, in connection with agriculture and the Gracious Speech, the fact that no reference is made to the workers within the industry. I assume that later, when detailed proposals for the future of the industry come under discussion, the workers will have some special mention, because their welfare was part of the Labour Party's programme during the recent campaign on the hustings. Agriculture, expanding as it is from a production point of view, is a contracting industry in its usage of manpower. Year by year thousands of workers leave the industry. This continuation in the reduction of manpower is bound to go on, at any rate for a considerable time ahead. New developments in mechanisation and the application of science to the industry will lead inevitably to a continuing reduction in the number of those engaged in the industry. As my constituency is composed, on the one hand, of a coastal belt dealing with holiday traffic, which uses its labour for only a limited period of the year, and, on the other, an agricultural area where manpower is declining year by year, it represents problems which will have to be tackled. In  this debate much has been said of underemployment in the North-West, in Scotland and in the North-East, but I assure the House that there is much under-employment in the purely rural areas. This is particularly true of a constituency like North Norfolk. Over a number of years employment in the constituency was bolstered up by the continued use of airfields, ordnance factories and British Railways, but the number of airfields in my constituency have been reduced, the ordnance factories have disappeared, and the railways have virtually disappeared as well. Now there is only one railway line running through one part of the constituency. How long that would have remained in being if the previous Government remained in office I do not know. The bulk of the railway system throughout North Norfolk has been closed down already. As a consequence, because little or no new industry has come into the area, our young people are moving out and going great distances to try and find employment. I know of some who are going even as far as Stowmarket and Ipswich, in Suffolk, because there is nothing for them nearer at hand in their own localities. The consequence of this migration of our young people will lead inevitably to the delightful area which I represent having within it a number of decaying and dying villages. I am sure that the whole House will agree that this is bad. When the report on regional development in the South-East, ""The South East Study"", was published a few months ago a dividing line was drawn between King's Lynn, Norwich and Great Yarmouth. Apparently, under that plan, no development was to take place beyond that line leading towards the coast, but there is within the constituency an urgent need for new undertakings. I am not suggesting that the delightful coastline or the delightful inland area should see great new factories planted there. But I should like to see—I am sure that this is the wish of everyone in Norfolk—small and medium-sized firms coming into the area to provide employment alternative to casual seasonal work in the holiday trade and the declining manpower demands of agriculture. I am sure that the rural, urban and county authorities of Norfolk—I mention particularly the urban and rural   areas of Fakenham, North Walsham and Cromer—would over-reach themselves to encourage new industries of small and medium scale to come in. This is a most important area which must not be overlooked when we are considering the underemployment problems of other parts of the country, and I hope that the Government, when going into the matter, will not draw arbitrary lines such as that drawn in the South-East Study, but will have regard to the whole of the areas under survey. A word now about the new organisations which my right hon. Friend the First Secretary of State told us about today, the regional advisory councils to consist of representatives of local authorities, the universities, commerce and others. I draw attention to one type of organisation which has been in existence for a number of years and express the hope that it may be brought actively into the picture. I refer to the regional boards for industry. These were created by the late Sir Stafford Cripps when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I was privileged to be a member of the East and West Ridings Regional Board for Industry when it was created. For the past 10 years, until my election to this House, I have been chairman of that particular board. In case there are hon. Members not fully acquainted with the constitution of these boards, I remind the House that they represent not people who have retired but people actively engaged in industry on both sides, with six representatives of different employers' organisations, on the one hand, six principal full-time trade union officers representing different industries, on the other, together with the regional controllers of the Government Departments for the regions concerned. In my experience, these boards have performed an extremely useful function. They work very well. They have expert knowledge of industry in their localities. I sincerely hope that they will be used to the full in the new machinery of regional advisory councils which is to be set up. I know that the boards are anxious to co-operate to the full. Both sides of industry are anxious to play a fuller part than they have been able to play in the past. I am sure that these points will be given full consideration. I thank the  House, as other hon. Members making their maiden speeches today have done, for the tolerance which it has shown to me. Now that this hurdle has been overcome, I look forward to making contributions to our wider discussions in the future.
