gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
There stands out in my memory, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, an occasion some ten years ago when I had the honour to follow my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Sir W. Churchill) in addressing a gathering of 26,000 people in a stadium better known as Rangers'   Football Ground and adjacent to the constituency which I now have the honour to represent. I thought that that occasion would remain in my memory as the sternest test that I was likely to endure. I had not at that time visualised making this speech. I know that it is an occasion well-nigh intolerable to each of us in turn and that it is made tolerable only by the traditional indulgence and good will which I now ask from you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, and from hon. Members of the House. I am very grateful, however, that this, the first occasion on which I address the House, should be during a debate of this kind. I have been closely and happily associated with young people for over twenty years. Before the war I brought a group of 12 to 16-year-olds to London for a week. I should like to remind hon. Members at that time it cost 25s. return to bring them from Central Scotland and that the cost of keeping each one of us in London for a whole week was 12s. 7¾d. per head. I should also like to say that these young people had saved 3d. a week for two years in order to take part in this venture. The difference, if I remember rightly, was made up by selling what we Scots call ""taiblet"". However, I recall that in at least one case the 3d. bit which was brought to me on the Monday night was returned surreptitiously by me to the child's mother the same night because that was the only 3d. that was going to be, or could be, contributed from that home. I was determined that no child should for financial reasons miss the venture. These teen-agers were a revelation to me. They knew their history; they loved the ballet; they recited their Shakespeare with the company at Regent's Park; rather too loudly. They were prepared to spend hours in the National Gallery and they looked down on this House with absorbed interest. They did all this while retaining a vivid interest in the dead rats which they found washed up by Tower Bridge and while keeping an infallible eye open for old gentlemen who were most likely to provide them all with free ice cream. At the outbreak of war a few weeks later I took some fifty teen-agers, who  were scarcely older than those who had made the London visit, for a tented life on the east coast of Scotland. I remember that by November it was distinctly chilly there. One young woman had never owned a comb and another preferred to sleep on the ground as she had not been of the age group in her family which entitled her to qualify for a share of the bed. The former was later to be mentioned in brigade orders for bravery on duty during a fire and the latter was soon to become a kine theodolite operator and to be commissioned. Three years later when with a mixed anti-aircraft regiment, the average age of the 800 women who served in the regiment was, after 18 months' service, 20 years and four months. At no time, even during the stress and strain of enemy attack on London, did these teen-agers fail to respond or prove themselves otherwise than completely capable of anything that they were asked to do. So by 1946, when I first became a member of an education committee, I was very conscious of two things relevant to our debate today, first the vastly change social and economic conditions of our young people, and second and by far the more important, that they had proved themselves capable of far greater things than opportunity had offered them so far. Here I should like to pay tribute to what is being done and has been done for a long time in spare time and educational work through voluntary organisations which have been working tirelessly for years. No payment will ever compensate for the sacrifice of spare time and energy spent in this way, nor will the lure of ""lolly"" secure those best suited to this task. I had the honour to be chairman of the Scottish Association of Mixed and Girls' Clubs for some years after the war. No praise is too high for the paid staff or the voluntary workers associated with this and other movements of the kind. But they need premises and the Government must be prepared to spend towards this aim, for teen-agers today earning £3 million a day in this country and spending it on the status symbols of clothes, smokes, sweets, and ""pop"" records will not respond to the drab. We, the public and Parliament, must be prepared, for example, to support the Y.M.C.A. which runs a skiffle group on a Sunday night   and to remember that a well-led club of that kind can end a meeting with as fervent hymn singing as there was jiving half an hour before. In my constituency, in the town of Renfrew on the banks of the Clyde, there is today the very real problem of young people who are charged with loitering on a Sunday night. It is for us as a nation to provide a better alternative than this for the Sabbath day In leadership lies the key. I have interviewed youth leaders for local authority clubs. All too few of quality are available and, therefore, it is essential that they should be trained so that youth work can expand and that those now in it can be encouraged in their very difficult and worth while task. Nor should we forget the educational work, to which my right hon. Friend has referred, now being done in mining schools, trade schools and day-release classes. It is all too true that there are too few apprentices made available for those classes, but it has been my privilege to have been closely associated with some of these institutions and to have been inspired both by the zeal of the teachers and the enthusiasm of the pupils. I remember, for example, one teen-ager who bicycles ½ miles through a Scottish winter night to attend his mining class and bicycles the 12½ miles back on the same night and in any weather. It is for us to extend these facilities which will enable more of our teen-agers to take advantage of education of this kind. How do we divide the teen-age group which we are thinking about today? When we talk of juvenile crime, do we realise that the figure for crime is 2 per cent. for boys and 0·2 per cent. for girls? That leaves 97 per cent. or thereabouts to benefit to some extent from the better conditions of today. I think it worth mentioning that many of those who have been associated with the teenagers have long since concluded that the ""Teds"" are not leaders; they are only those who are trying to keep up. Most of our young people have character and ability and, after all, a 20-year-old is what we in Scotland call ""no blate"": he knows all the answers and perhaps I may be excused for saying that hon. Members on this side of the House have good cause this year to remember with appreciation the energy and ability of our young people. When we consider this Report, I would mention something that has not already been mentioned, and that is that we shall not, I hope, go to the extreme of imagining that all teen-agers are capable of university education, although they are indeed very capable of reaping the benefit of education up to that stage. When I had the privilege to serve on the Secretary of State for Scotland's Advisory Council on Education we were forced to ask ourselves two questions: first, what is the size of the pool of ability; second, what is the size of the pool of educated manpower? As to the first question, it is a fact that 6 per cent. of pupils in any one year attain a leaving certificate or the G.C.E. or whatever is its modern equivalent. What I mean is that they attain university entrance standard, but research done by the Professor of Education in St. Andrew's University over the last twenty years, despite being interrupted by the war, convincingly suggests that there are some 10 per cent. to 11 per cent. of our young people capable of reaching this standard. Thus wastage occurs because able pupils leave school prematurely. Although time does not permit me to analyse now the causes of this, it is a fact that although the percentage of an age group remaining at school has risen, appreciably, as my right hon. Friend has said, the achievement of success has not risen correspondingly. In other words, we are not yet catching all our able pupils. This may be used as an argument to raise the school-leaving age, a principle with which we all agree, but I should like to give point to my second question by saying what a different picture it shows. In Scotland, for example, teaching requires some 300 more graduates a year than it did before the war. Yet Scottish universities are putting out today only 300 more graduates for all purposes in arts and pure science. Thus, whatever the will may be, the consequences of raising the school-leaving age would be indeed most serious in that respect. I have not forgotten the recommendation with which we are dealing is for 1965 to 1969. All I have done is to remember that we are some 3,000 teachers short in Scotland or 75 per cent. of the total, and that the figures for England, as we have already heard, are scarcely less alarming. This leads me to my final question. What of the wastage both in schools and in the universities, and how is it to be overcome? Wider courses and more individual teaching would undoubtedly help, but for ten years I have interviewed unsatisfactory bursars and I have been struck by the fact that the transition from school to university has been too much for so many of them. The percentage wastage in Scottish universities varies from 5 per cent. to 29 per cent. of the intake of any one year. It averages over 20 per cent. and in one faculty in one university the wastage of graduates entering in 1952 was 38 per cent. Therefore, I suggest that we examine three things so that we achieve a better percentage of our young people reaching their potential ability: first, the reasons for wastage within the schools, and these, as hon. Members know, are social as well as scholastic; second, the method of teaching in the last years of schooling and the first year at university, to try to narrow the gap and also to try to instil the discipline of learning; and lastly, where we can find any source which we are losing at present. My hon. Friend the Civil Lord to the Admiralty said on 14th December: In 1959, we drew our cadets from no less than 56 different independent schools. Perhaps the parents of public school boys, having paid considerable sums of money for the education of their children, may not always be in a position to pay further for a university education, and under the current regulations they may get little financial help with the university part of the education.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 14th December, 1959; Vol. 615, c. 1215] That prompts me to suggest that in welcoming this Report we should have real vision towards a wider university education, and I hope that we may see free university education. By 1970 there will be 25 per cent. more university places, and there will be nearly twice as many 17-year-olds at school. I believe that the knowledge of equal opportunity irrespective of means and on a gauge of ability alone would lift a great burden of anxiety from parents and children alike. So many are already receiving assistance that I believe the cost would be less than it might seem to my right hon. Friend at this moment. I believe that in Scotland, if one were to take fees alone, the cost would be less than  £1 million. If one were to include the maintenance grant, it would perhaps be a figure of about four times that amount. I would not venture to suggest to the House what the comparable figures for England might be. My direct ancestor sat in the Scottish Parliament 400 years ago when it passed the great Act in which the conception of compulsory and free schooling for all first appeared—if I may say so, nearly three centuries before its English counterpart. I hope to sit in the Parliament which enacts that university education shall be free to all those of the ability to graduate.
