gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is never very easy to make a maiden speech in this House, but it can be particularly difficult to follow a Prime Minister. But I hope that the House will be tolerant with me this afternoon. I speak today as the Member for West Bromwich, well aware that my predecessor, Maurice Foley, was a respected Member of this House and a Minister with special responsibility for immigration and race relations in a former Government, I well know the stand he took on this issue, both in the constituency and nationally. He is a man intolerant of injustice in all its forms and with the ability to apply in a practical manner his sense of decency and fair play. As a first-hand witness, I recall his integrity in dealing with those who seek to excite the most violent and irrational emotions because they believe that to be anti-colour and to be anti-immigrant   is to court popularity. Today, Maurice Foley is an international civil servant, responsible for associating the developing world with the developed world of Western Europe, a job that he is particularly well-experienced and well-equipped to perform. My roots are working class and I have earned my living since the age of 17. Therefore, I claim to be able at any rate to speak for ordinary working people. This, reinforced by recent support of the electorate, might, I hope, help to balance in some way my lack of parliamentary experience. But I am proud to be the Member for West Bromwich, sent here in the main by people who earn their living in industry—in foundries, rolling mills, in factories, making components for motor cars and aircraft and a variety of engineering products—industries which secured for Britain her formal industrial power and which today ensure her economic survival. West Bromwich's Victorian town hall has an elaborate ceiling cast by the iron masters of old and the borough has a prizewinning brass band. Having been brought up in Yorkshire's West Riding I need no converting to industrial people. They are my kind of folk. I am sure that politicians and parties must give a lead, but they must also turn a sensitive ear to the views of constituents. I hope that it will interest the House if I mention just two major issues which concern my constituents. The first without doubt is that of inflation. The second is a strong feeling they have about injustice in our national life today. Earlier today there was a heated argument about land and homes. In West Bromwich in June 1970 the price of a plot of land for an average house was £1,500. Today it is double that. Building society figures show that the average price of a new house in the Midlands was £4,800 in June 1970. Today it is £8,200. In June 1970 monthly mortgage payments were £34. Today they are nearly twice that figure. A family needs a large income to meet these demands. I turn, secondly, to the justifiable complaints of my constituents about the rocketing price of food which has worn out the elasticity of their wage packets. For three weeks we monitored prices in West Bromwich. Every other day we  carried out a survey of retail prices in the high street. We found that even in one week many essential items had crept up in price, some by one penny, some by more. No wonder the cost of living was the talking point. No wonder I was constantly asked, ""When will something be done about it? ""One suggestion we made was that local authorities should be given powers to monitor prices locally and to tackle abuses locally. Having abandoned the Consumer Council some three years ago. I hope that the Government's new proposals for consumer centres will be given teeth and powers to protect the consumer as well as to advise the consumer. It was no comfort to my constituents to learn that only a week after I had taken my seat in the House the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food told the House, in answer to a Question, that during the period of this Government on the latest figures available families have had to pay an extra 49p every week of food for every person in the family. This does not include essential household items. It is 49p per person, per week on food alone. Hon. Members will recall, as I do, that nationally organised band of women known as the Housewives League. They campaigned dutifully in the late 1940s objecting because ration books were still required for essential foods. Where are the daughters of the consumer revolution now that we have rationing by the purse? It can hardly be made more obvious to the Government that people want convincing action to protect them from rising prices. The Chancellor added to their general hardship in his April Budget, and he can now help to put that right. I was disappointed to learn today that there is to be no increase in family allowances. This matter could be put right by increasing family allowances and by granting an allowance for the first child. This is one of the fastest methods possible of getting help to those in need. Secondly, under phase 3 the level of pay rises must be related directly to the cost of food and other essentials. This threshold method of increases would help all wage earners, those with families and   those without children, and it could be extended to cover pensioners. Thirdly, in improving the common agricultural policy the Government must ensure that major changes are made to reduce the glut of dairy produce. I know that it is not easy. The emphasis must be on the growing demand for protein foods such as beef and pigmeat. The important thing here is that the Government must take an initiative. It is not enough merely to negotiate on the proposals of other member nations. I mentioned earlier that politicians must listen, but they must also give a lead in these matters. I turn next to pensioners. At a time of rapid inflation they, too, need rapid help. In West Bromwich we are blessed with a social services department which is second to none. We have people who give their time and their energies to clubs for the over-60s. Were it not for those men and women, many of our elderly would find loneliness a final burden in their struggle for existence. In far too many cases they do not have a life, but a struggle for existence against the odds. There was disappointment that the Budget which gave relief to surtax payers did nothing to recognise the pressing needs of the elderly. With spiralling prices and with the pound rapidly falling the October increase is already overtaken. In my family we would say in such circumstances, ""It has got its coat and hat on before it is over the doorstep."" Why is it not possible for an immediate increase to be given to cushion the effects of inflation? Why is it not possible for those who produce their pension books at their regular post office to get an increase in benefit from August onwards? If it is argued that it is administratively impossible to cope with the paper work, we have only to look at previous years. In 1955 and 1964 pension increases were given within a matter of a few weeks. Surely with modern management methods and with computers it is possible to do that in 1973. Why must the pensioners wait until October? May I finally turn, briefly, to the question of our national life. The firm impression that I carry from the West Bromwich by-election is the dissatisfaction that people feel that our society  is unjust and unfair, that we live by the rule of law but that there is one law for the well off and another for those who are not so well off. It is difficult for me to articulate their feelings, but I shall try. Allow me to put it like this: have the Government a right to be listened to in their appeal for wage restraints when we have only to look at the financial pages of the national Press to see that company profits are rapidly increasing? Have the Government the right to be listened to by families seeking homes when rents are deliberately increased and when the property speculator is elevated to the top of our society? Have the Government the right to be listened to by hard-hit families when measures to protect their interests are rejected? The Government were not elected constantly to explain away the problems of world conditions, world prices or the actions of primary producers. They were elected to find the answers. There can be no real progress until everyone realises that we have a two-tier society and that until practical steps are taken to alleviate its injustices people everywhere will feel badly about this Government which were elected on false promises. I thank the House for listening to me so tolerantly.
