gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I made an early application for my maiden speech. If I had waited longer, I might have developed a complex amidst such eloquence and never made the application. My sensibilities are not diminished by the knowledge that my predecessor, Sir Geoffrey de Freitas, was a distinguished Member of this House for a great many years. I pay tribute to Sir Geoffrey, with whom I have worked since 1964. In that year he narrowly defeated me at the selection conference for the Labour candidate. I have always had a subjective belief that the best man won, but was not prepared to admit it until I contemplated this speech. Sir Geoffrey served his country and constituency well. He was kind, considerate and conscientious and, perhaps more important, he was effective in matters concerning the well-being of his constituents, particularly in the multiplicity of small businesses and farming that form a substantial part of the working activity of the area. Sir Geoffrey's standing in the constituency played a substantial part in my electoral difficulties. I hope to reverse that trend in the future, but if when I leave the House for the last time it is said that I proved to be an adequate successor, I shall have done a good job. The only advantage that I would claim is that most of my life has been spent within a few miles of Kettering. I worked in the constituency for almost 20 years. Since moving my home to the West Midlands, I have worked in the Kettering area two or three days a week as a fulltime trade union officer in the iron and steel industry. I know the problems that I shall be expected to tackle. Kettering's industrial structure covers a substantial part of the whole spectrum of manufacturing and agricultural activity. It is diversified to a degree where it is almost a microcosm of the national scene. Its variegated content ranges from the immense heavy steel industry in Corby, through the light industry of boots and shoes, garments and engineering, to some of the lushest grazing pastures in the country. We also have more than our share of stately homes. I have no doubt  that at some time I shall attract the attention of the heritage association, or whatever the stately homes trade union calls itself. Unfortunately, over the past few years industrial activity in the Kettering constituency has tended to have clay feet. The staple industries of steel, boots and shoes and garments are under more pressure from the world recession than most other industries. It will be my constant duty to draw the Government's attention to the social consequences to my constituents of certain policies arising from the Budget. These consequences will be most dramatic if the British Steel Corporation is encouraged in its belief that the Corby iron and steel works should be closed. Corby is a new town, less than two generations old. It was created from the early 1930s to serve almost exclusively the iron and steel industry. Despite brave attempts by local institutions and individuals to diversify the industrial structure of the town, it is almost exclusively dependent on iron and steel. Any attempt to close the iron and steel works without adequate provision for new jobs would be a savage blow to Corby. Irrespective of the debate about the iron and steel works, I shall be pressing for the grant of special area status, which is necessary for the diversification of industry in Corby. Despite its youth, Corby has areas that are as run down as any to be found in the most deprived inner cities. Whole streets of houses are boarded up as a protection against vandals. That is the result of steel works layoffs because of recessional activity or attempts to make the works viable by raising productivity and demanning. Employment in the steel and tube works has already fallen from a peak of 30,000 to less than 11,000. The premature decay of some parts of the town is attributable to that. The frenzied efforts of many people to fill the gap with new jobs has met with little success. If this is the picture now, little imagination is needed to envisage the scene if about 5,500 jobs are lost from the iron and steel works. It is also easy to envisage the multiplier effect of this on a one-industry dependent community. At present 84 buses a day are run into the   works, and the unemployment level in the town could not possibly be less than 25 per cent. of the available work force. The impact of this would not stop at the town boundaries of Corby. The whole Kettering constituency and adjacent constituencies would be severely affected. For Corby itself—I am reluctant to use emotive terms, but I feel that there is no other word—the result would be devastating. It is no wonder that the work force of Corby says that there will be no talk of closure until replacement jobs are available. I urge the Government to reflect long and hard before they accept the British Steel Corporation's proposals for Corby iron and steel works. Undoubtedly Corby is a special case. Despite the Government's strong position in the House, I do not believe that any informed electorate would give a mandate to produce such a situation in one town. Neither can the Corby steel workers contemplate any quick access to fresh employment in the rest of the Kettering constituency. During the pre-election compaign period I visited many boot and shoe factories in the area. Practically everywhere I went I heard demands from the employers themselves for more protection and more assistance to refurbish their industry. Some of my more elderly constituents constantly pointed out that at one time there had been a boot and shoe factory in almost every other street in Kettering, Desborough and Rothwell, but now one has to be pre-informed of an address before it is possible to find even one such factory. When I asked where all the workers had gone, the short reply was that they were all at the iron and steel works in Corby. During the election campaign I received a long letter from the Boot and Shoe Employers' Association detailing the severe pressures on the industry caused by cheap imports. The association is certain that some of these imports are being sold in this country at prices that are below the cost of production. I had a long meeting with the officials of the Shoe and Allied Trades Research Association, who stated categorically that if the last Government had not changed the attitude of all previous Governments to the boot and shoe industry three and  a half years ago, there would be no boot and shoe industry in this country today. Despite the decline in the industry, boots and shoes still provide a great many jobs in the Kettering constituency. All those concerned with the industry are convinced that given continued support for a few more years, the industry will not only survive but will grow in strength to a point where it will have no fears about foreign competition, which is solely responsible for its present malaise. Let nobody believe that the charge of low productivity can be levelled at the boot and shoe workers in an industry where straight piecework still forms the basis of pay structure in the vast majority of cases. The same can be said of the garment industry, another large-scale employer in the Kettering constituency, where on straight piecework the employees have developed a tempo which cannot be found in the manufacturing establishments using the more sophisticated incentive schemes associated with work measurement. Yet the garment industry, also because of cheap imports, has only been able to maintain its employment levels by full use of the job assistance schemes of the last Government. I believe that my constituency is under threat. I was pleased to hear, when I attended the mayor's reception in Kettering the other evening, that the new borough council would set up an industry committee. I urge the Government to make an early start on the building of the A1-M1 link road to which the last Government gave their approval, because this provides the most important single step that could be taken to help my constituency to provide new industry. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker for enabling me to make my maiden speech. I thank the House also for the courtesy that it has accorded to me.
