gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the new Secretary of State for the Environment on his appointment and thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to address the House. I believe that it is in the best tradition of maiden speeches that I pay tribute to my predecessors, and I do so warmly. However, there has only been one previous Member for Nuneaton, because, before 1983 and the Boundary Commission's changes, the constituency was Nuneaton and Bedworth. For many years Frank Bowles, later to become Lord Bowles in the other place, held that constituency. When Frank Bowles retired, Frank Cousins held the seat for a short time. I well remember that. As the voting age was then 21, Frank Cousins was the first person   that I was old enough to vote for. I remember him touring our estate in an old, yellow, open-topped Rolls-Royce—very smart it looked too. Then Mr. Leslie Huckfield became the Member of Parliament for Nuneaton, and I am sure that the House will remember him. He went on to that House over the water for a short spell. My predecessor was Mr. Lewis Stevens, who was the Member for Nuneaton from 1983. I believe that he was a quiet but hard-working and conscientious Member of the House, and I think that he was well respected on both sides of the Chamber. From looking at the records, I understand that he had the eighth best voting record in the last Parliament. He was a very diligent Member. However, it might have been better for the people of Nuneaton if there had been some more ""no"" votes in that record—they were all ""yes"" votes—especially in the votes on the financial strangulations of the poll tax and the discredited standard spending assessments that have burdened local government in the past few years. In every other respect, I believe that Lewis Stevens served his constituents to the best of his abilities and was well respected by them for it. I agree with the comments of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, Brightside (Mr. Blunkett) on the Bill. I shall certainly not oppose what has been put before the House. However, we should all recognise that all parts of the local community have a role to play to ensure good services and an infrastructure most suited to the community's inhabitants and to the industries and commerce that flourish within it. Those two links are important. One cannot ignore the fact that people who live in a community are employed there in commerce and in industry. There is an historic and traditional link, started by the Rowntrees, who believed that people needed good services, homes and education, because that was better for the companies employing them. I think that that is still as true as it was then. In the fullness of time, history will repeat itself. During the past two years, constituencies such as Nuneaton, which is in Warwickshire, have suffered from reduced Government grants and the SSAs, which have led to capping—I asked the Minister a question on capping in this place last week. They have meant some real hardships for people in my constituency, hardships that they are suffering and that they will probably continue to suffer. With the threat of another £6 million of public expenditure being taken away from them, none of my constituents know, with any assurance, what the future means for them. Some elderly people live in authority-run homes in my constituency, but those homes are now being sold off by the local authority. The police authority has had inadequate resources. I know that one Conservative member of Warwickshire county council had his knuckles rapped sharply in the last round of public expenditure talks, when he rebelled against his group and said that the police authority needed extra money. He was not on his own: his colleagues in the social services and education departments were saying exactly the same about their services. The fire and rescue services in my constituency are so under-funded that the Home Office, with its formula, is questioning their viability. Education is one of the great things that we have all benefited from, and the education service is suffering at all levels from inadequate resources, which means fewer  teachers, leading to higher pupil-teacher ratios. That, combined with cuts in the budgets for equipment, means that we are denying young people rights to the best education possible. Lest we all forget it, we only come this way once. We are only young once, and it behoves us all to ensure that everyone has the right to equal opportunity in education because that is the key to our future in the Chamber and to the work of commerce and industry. Not only is that right being denied but this year, for the first time, young people in Nuneaton will be put at risk because many of the professional services that have run the youth service in Warwickshire so successfully for many years will be cut. Youth service leaders have taken people through the Duke of Edinburgh's award schemes year after year, and they are extremely saddened that their future ability to do so will be greatly diminished. Nothing in the Queen's Speech gave any hope to those constituents who are either homeless or inadequately housed—there are many of them. Nothing in the speech gave local councils the ability to build the houses that would meet the needs of those people and thus create employment in the construction-related industries. While I am the Member representing Nuneaton, I shall seek to protect and further local government, and to bring it closer to the people, which includes industry and commerce. I remember my years as leader of Nuneaton borough council. Year by year, I faithfully consulted the leaders of industry and commerce before the council set the rate. The leaders of industry and commerce often told me that I was not spending enough on the infrastructure that they so badly needed to make their industries flourish. It is crucial for the democratic process in this country that all parts of the community play a full and cohesive role. I shall also seek to look after the needs of industry and ensure that they are not ignored or overlooked. I will ensure that the voice of the people of Nuneaton will not go unheard in this Chamber.
