gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I shall try to follow my hon. Friend the Member for Stretford (Mr. Lloyd) in the same style and, I hope, with the same competence. I consider it a privilege to represent Sheffield, Heeley in the House of Commons. I thank the Heeley people not just for their support, but for the many good wishes that I have received since I took my seat here. I pay a special tribute to Frank Hooley who represented the old Heeley constituency. It is obvious that he was greatly respected in this House. Many of his colleagues and I have discussed the work that he did in the House, particularly concerning the Third world I should like to record the appreciation and respect that 11 have for Frank, whom I have known for more than 15 years, and to wish him well and all the best in the future. I thank hon. Members, and the staff, who have been very helpful in assisting me to find my way around the various corridors, which, I am sure, were designed purely to confuse, as each looks exactly the same as the others, no matter whether one walks up or down them. No doubt the mysteries of the procedure will slowly disappear in the coming months. I shall no doubt crack the system eventually and become a more effective Member of Parliament. Then I shall have to pinch myself to remind myself whence I came and why I came. Knowing the Heeley people, I am sure that they will keep me in line. Heeley, like any other industrial area, is experiencing the problems of the economic depression and of unemployment. The industries in the constituency are small to medium sized, but they too have suffered the pain of redundancies and closures, no matter how much workers, management or councils try to help. Many of my constituents work just outside the constituency, in the British steel corporation and in large engineering works. I do not have to spell out what has happened to those large companies. There is a very sad joke being bandied around in Sheffield. It concerns the Prime Minister's pledge in 1979 that, if elected to office, the Conservatives would help small businesses in every possible way to be more competitive in the market place. The joke is that the Sheffield people did not realise that BSC would have to be included in that category. The unemployment rate in the constituency cannot be claimed to be the highest in the city or in the country. Overall figures can be misleading. There are areas with over 20 per cent. unemployment, and there is a well-off area with less than 7 per cent. But, whatever the figures, we are all genuinely concerned about the problem. I have had the experience of being without a job for two years, and I know that the statistics are of no comfort. I invite  Ministers to walk round the industrial area of the east end of Sheffield. It is all very well to say that we can have money for an urban programme, for landscaping and so on, but we would rather have productive jobs back in the area, so that we may use the skills of which we are so proud. The damage caused to the Sheffield industrial base is nothing short of criminal. In the homes and on the dole queues, one can meet people who for many years not only enjoyed being in work, but were proud to make a contribution because of their special skills in engineering. All that skill and experience has been thrown away, and it is one of the biggest tragedies that I have witnessed in my life. There does not seem to be any protection for them, and they feel a sense of hopelessness. When people pick up the newspapers and read about the European Community and its dilemmas, and where cuts should be made, they realise that Britain has taken perhaps half the total cuts in steel in the whole of the Community. They also read that the United States Government, being worried about their steel industry, take action. The Sheffield people ask why our Government cannot do the same for our people in the industrial areas of the north. When skills have been lost they cannot be immediately replaced at will. It is crazy to think that skilled workers, having been put on the dole to waste away for five or 10 years, can be replaced in one year as a result of youth training schemes. Those schemes will never work and we shall be ever more dependent on other countries to produce the special steels which have made Britain great and powerful. We are scrapping wealth that is irreplaceable. That is one side of the problem. The other side of the problem is the effect of unemployment on the community as a whole. There is the damage that it is doing to family life and home life, and the effect that it is having on health. Workers who previously worked hard and enjoyed good health are now quite ill. At one time, steel workers and engineering workers were seen only rarely in doctors' surgeries. That is no longer the case, and there are now psychological and mental as well as physical problems. Those problems must not be ignored. People desperately need help, but not in the form of handouts or compensation for not having a job. The only help that they want is the provision of a good productive job, so that their dignity can be restored to them. Sheffield city council has done its best to protect its people by giving advice when they have become unemployed. It has done its best to protect the jobs and skills of the city. In addition, it has increased the social services. It took the initiative to create an employment department under section 137 of the Local Government Act 1972 and in those early days did much pioneering work to find out what exactly could be done under section 137. In those early days, section 137 was an absolute minefield. I give credit not just to the officers in the town hall and the legal department and even in some Government Departments, but to members of the city council who spent a whole day going through the Act, understanding it and picking things out that would be useful to the city and its residents. Urban aid is useful, but as with any other grants, unless one has a good machine to implement such plans, one may cause further problems. Every time that a local authority   such as Sheffield tries to help by using section 137 and urban aid, it is forever looking over its shoulder to see whether a curb will be placed on it. The Sheffield authority can honestly claim to have saved many jobs. It has helped workers suddenly made redundant after 20 years to claw their way back into society. That has been a tremendous psychological boost to the Sheffield people. The Sheffield city council went to the people, instead of waiting for the people sooner or later to cry for help. It has helped people to regain their self-confidence, and has helped skilled workers to set up their own businesses and worker co-operatives. In a way, it is strange that some workers, through their own inspiration and with financial help and guidance, should have set up co-operatives in the engineering and steel sectors—the very areas in which, when they were made redundant, they were told, ""There are no orders."" The orders exist. All that is needed is the will to fight and to make the right products. Those co-operatives have been successful and we are proud of them. Small firms in the private sector are also going like a bomb thanks to section 137 money. I received a letter from a small engineering company thanking the city council for its help. In the last paragraph—this was unprompted—it said that it was ironic that in 1979 a Tory Government were elected on a pledge to help small businesses, yet it has taken a Left-wing Socialist council to help put it on the right track. That letter is pinned on the town hall notice board, and we are very proud of it. As well as the political argument for and against the right way to proceed, there is also the moral argument about how we get the country back to work by creating skilled jobs that will make products that are socially useful. In that sense, the Sheffield city council has always cared, particularly during the past four or five years when redundancies have hit the city hard. The Sheffield people have always been appreciative of that. They have always supported the council's policies. Indeed, that support is increasing. The people appreciate what the council is trying to do for young people. Instead of putting them on training schemes after six months, it is trying to provide training that will be of real benefit if there is ever an upturn in the economy. However, for backing the city council the Sheffield people have been punished by the Government. By exercising their democratic right to vote for caring policies, the Sheffield people have in the last few years effectively been fined £127 million. That is unacceptable, not just to Labour supporters, but to others across the political spectrum. It is obvious that legislation is on the way to curb the freedom of city councils such as Sheffield even more. I am sure that the voice of Sheffield will cry out, ""Leave us alone to try to help the people about whom we are concerned."" The Sheffield Star, in its editorial last night, clearly stated what it thinks about the measures that are coming before us. In an article headed ""Outcry that is justified"", it said that the outcry by local councils over Government cuts was predictable but totally justified and understandable. It added: The councils have not overspent, other than by passing an arbitrary mark dictated by central government to fit their national perspective, not the needs of local people.  The argument is that the Prime Minister won a majority, and therefore a mandate. To some extent, that can be accepted. It is true that the nation did give overwhelming support for the Prime Minister's reelection, and in doing so signalled some support for her policies. But it is equally true that local councils have been elected with overwhelming majorities, particularly in south Yorkshire. They have also been supported by the voters, and therein lies a dilemma. The message from our local paper is quite simple. It is not necessarily of Labour party persuasion, but it has been a keen watchdog and on more than one occasion has brought the council to task when it felt that its policies were not right or beneficial to the ratepayers. That paper has been fair to the ratepayers and the local authority, but has pointed out any injustice. At the end of its editorial, it said: The present Government attitude is too strict and the constraints on local councils doing what is best for their people ought to be loosened. I am grateful that such a comment should be made by an independent local paper. It seems that the Government are going out of their way to be dictatorial, and, like all dictatorships, they tend to remove impediments to their doing exactly what they want. The warning signs are already there. If they take too much control and take all freedom away from local government, they will remove a safety valve which is crucial to our democracy. If we are not careful, there will be no outlet for frustration, and there will be no way in which local communities can ever again have any faith in such democracy. I therefore plead with the Government to stop before it is too late. The message that all Sheffield Members have received from the city council—I believe that it has gone to Ministers—is to urge the Government to carry out as priorities, first, the restoration nationally of the 20 per cent. drop in manufacturing output and one third drop in investment since 1979; secondly, the restoration locally of the employment of the 43,000 people currently unemployed, including 9,000 young people; and, thirdly, the immediate lifting of penalties and the restoration of some of the £127 million in grants and housing subsidy that was taken from the council in 1979. That is the policy of the city council, supported by many people, not just the Labour party. We believe that a commitment to those priorities will bring healing and hope to a country and a city ravaged by four years of destructive and savagely divisive national economic and social problems. I therefore ask the Government to think again and to give some hope to the people of Sheffield.
