gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I know that this House extends to all new Members every consideration for the strain imposed in the making of a maiden speech. I ask the indulgence of the House at this point when I cease to be merely an enervating shade voicelessly haunting this Chamber. Like all new Members, I find that on my entry to this House my life has been vastly changed. On the day I became a Member I ceased to be a trade union official and, shortly after the recent election. I was informed that on the day that I ceased to be a trade union official I had become an honorary vice-president of two employers' organisations. I find that some-  what unexpected and precipitate metamorphosis not nearly as disturbing as I might have imagined; perhaps the ease of transformation is indicative of our democratic way of life or illustrates that the endless struggles of the legendary figure of Robin Hood, in my constituency, against the equally endless machinations of the Sheriff of Nottingham, have a much more useful purpose than merely to provide material for the gaps between one I.T.V. commercial and another. I represent part of the City of Nottingham—a city which has a history of industrial enterprise, of inventiveness and of radicalism. Yet, for all that it is an industrial city, it is nevertheless clean, bright and attractive. I wish that those three adjectives could be applied to all the offices in this country. I had wanted to say many things in the course of my speech, but I have not yet mastered the air of complete originality in saying something that has already been said at least six times in the course of the debate. It may be true to say that some office workers have never had it so good, because they now work in modern, palatial and airy offices, with all the amenities that this Bill seeks to establish for all office workers, but there are still many who toil in conditions which have not radically changed for a century or more. It seems to me that because office workers are not productive workers they are often looked upon as a necessary but burdensome evil—not worthy of consideration for improved conditions when those of other workers are being discussed. All too often managements and other classes of workers regard them as little more than office furniture, and more thought seems to be given to the maintenance of office equipment than to the comfort and welfare of those who have to use it. I have frequently heard office staff referred to, with all the contempt in the world, as ""the chairborne division"", or ""the shiny bottoms"", although that last descriptive term was usually couched in language a little less Parliamentary than the words I have used. An hon. Member of this House, seated previously on the Front Bench below the Gangway, said that office workers are remarkably articulate, and can put up a good case for an improvement in their position. I do not agree with him. All   too often clerical workers have meekly accepted the Cinderella treatment that has been meted out to them. They have seldom shown enough righteous indignation about the kind of conditions they have to put up with. I have seen office staffs working in badly-lit, ill-ventilated, overcrowded rabbit hutches, with all the horrifying details attached to them of which we have heard from other hon. Members today. It has always amazed me that they have put up with these conditions without any apparent resentment of the manner in which these conditions were undermining their general health and their sight. I know one office which is situated below a dental surgery. The drains in that dental surgery very frequently become defective, and from time to time coagulated blood and spittle seeps through the floor into the office below, and, until recently, the office workers had long put up with these disgusting conditions, and then complained bitterly against the conditions in which they were working. Even if these people are not always sufficiently vocal about these conditions, I welcome this Bill, which will bring much needed justice to a section of the working community who for too long have put up with these Cinderella conditions.
