gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me to speak today. I begin by paying tribute to my predecessor, Sydney Irving, who represented Dartford from 1955 to 1970 and from February 1974 until the recent election. During my four and a half years as parliamentary candidate we met on several occasions, and I found him at all times courteous, polite and extremely sensitive to the needs of an opponent. Though in the election we met on few occasions, I am glad to say that the courtesy we had  shown each other throughout the campaign was manifest on election night, when he was the first to congratulate me. I know that hon. Members on both sides of the House share regard for Sydney Irving, and I wish him well in his endeavours. I am pleased and honoured to represent the Dartford constituency. It gives me pleasure to speak following the speeches of two famous members of my party, one being my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, who started her political life in Dartford, and the other being my right hon. Friend the Member for Worcester (Mr. Walker), who stood in 1955 and 1959. They both failed, and ended up here. I succeeded, and I am still here. Dartford is a diverse constituency, stretching from industrial Thameside down to the centre of Kent, where the rolling fields and the oasthouses dot the countryside. Dartford has changed over a period of years from a market town into an industrial town with suburbs and some agriculture. The town has always contributed to the welfare of northern Kent, and I hope that it will continue to do so. Historically, we are very proud of our associations with Anne of Cleves, who lived there, and with Wat Tyler, that medieval Tribunite, who was born there. When they were revolting, the men of Kent always used the town as a base to attack London. I must admit that if a rebellion were to take place now I should be somewhat concerned that the contingent from Dartford would be late, because of our unique one-way system. However, I am sure that no rebellion will take place within the next few months. The constituency has heavy industry; we have paper making, cement making, pharmaceutical works and engineering. Although we are part of the golden triangle of the South-East, hon. Members should understand that there are special problems in Dartford that will need attention. After many years, unemployment, which the South-East had escaped, has finally come to us. Hall-Thermotank, one of our leading employers for many years, has started to lay people off. Seagers, a long-established employer, has just closed down. Therefore, we shall be looking to the Government to instil in the business community a sense of well-being   and welfare to create new jobs for the people of Dartford. Forty per cent. of my constituents commute into town every day. Any hon. Members who are up at seven o'clock in the morning and listen to the news will hear British Rail announce a list of cancellations, and they will probably note that the longer the list, the greater the number of times Dartford is mentioned. I shall join those hon. Members from Kent—my hon. Friends the Members for Gillingham (Mr. Burden) and for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Costain)—in pressing British Rail to improve the services. We are no longer prepared to put up with cancellations, delayed services, dirty compartments and increasing fares. It is only right to give notice that in the time during which I am here I intend to press for an improvement in the services and to make British Rail answerable in Parliament for the lack of those services that it insists on not providing. I am pleased to address my first remarks to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment, because I shall soon ask him to take a decision on the report of the inquiry into the application by Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers to develop Darenth Park. It is a matter of great contention within my constituency, because, although we have been an industrial town for many years, many people have now accepted that enough is enough, and we are not prepared to take any further industrial spoliation of our green belt. I hope that when he takes his decision my right hon. Friend will bear in mind that enough is enough and will listen to the people of Dartford when we say ""Do not allow any further development of our green belt."" I should like to spend some time on the question of home ownership—the right to own the house in which one lives. Last year my Conservative association conducted a survey among the 8,000 tenants in Dartford, who were asked to answer certain questions about their aspirations and about repairs and maintenance, but mainly whether they wanted to own the houses in which they lived. About 93 per cent. of those who replied said that they wanted to buy them. The other 7 per cent. did not want to do so, because of old  age or simple political expediency. We have Labour councillors who live in council houses and who therefore felt obliged to say ""No"". The election has shown that there must be a change in attitude towards home ownership. The council tenant is no longer prepared to be treated like a tied cottager. He wants the right to buy the house in which he has lived and brought up his family, and for which he has paid rent for many years. Indeed, it makes economic sense. Why pay rent when one can buy? This concept appeals greatly to many of my constituents. I am glad to hear that the announcement has been made today that legislation will be introduced. In some ways I consider that it is not coming soon enough. I should like the legislation to go forward at the end of this week, but I realise that with the limitations of time that is not possible. In Dartford, 57 per cent. of all houses are owner-occupied. There is very little private rented property. The rest is in the hands of the council. As a rather nineteenth-century Conservative, philosophically, the concept of giving people a stake in society appeals to me greatly. I shall support any legislation that is introduced to assist in this. I should now like to address a number of specific points to my right hon. Friend. First, I am concerned about the ability of local authorities to process applications quickly enough. It has come to my attention that one London council has had 3,000 applicants to buy, that the applications have been in for over a year, and that only 200 houses have been sold. That is due mainly to the inability or reluctance of the officers of that council to process the applications fast enough. I hope that the Minister will consider that. Many elderly parents are reluctant to take on extra financial responsibility but wish their adult sons and daughters who live with them to have the right to buy. I hope that that will be included in the legislation. Other tenants in my constituency are concerned that in the past few years they have changed from single to joint tenancies. They want reassurance that their tenure will not be affected by the joint tenancy in the application of a discount scheme. I further hope that the   Secretary of State will assess the needs of inner city authorities on land hoarding and make land available, especially in areas such as Southwark. That land should be released for houses and industrial building. In conclusion, although the election was extremely clean, I should like to mention one traumatic experience. It was at the end of the campaign, in Central park, which the Prime Minister will know, where I met three old ladies. The first said that she found me a bit like that nice Geoffrey Howe, the second that I looked a little like Clive Jenkins, and the third that she was would vote not for me but for that nice Mr. Dunn, the Liberal candidate. Sounding like Geoffrey Howe is a good thing but looking like Clive Jenkins and being taken for a Liberal is not in my favour. There is a story that has some longevity in my constituency. A former hon. Member in the nineteenth century who was here for 35 years made only one parliamentary speech. That was ""Do you mind closing the widow? It is draughty in here."" I hope that I shall make a better mark than he and continue to serve my constituents as well as many hon. Members have served theirs. I am grateful to the Chair for the kindness and tolerance that I have received.
