gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me this opportunity to address the House on the appalling problems that my constituency faces because of the Government's attitude to shipbuilding and other industries. It is an opportunity for me to talk about the reality that lies behind the regurgitation of statistics and the chatter and jocularity that   I have witnessed on the Government Benches over the past few weeks whenever we have discussed mass unemployment and the collapse of our traditional industries. Before dealing with those matters, I wish to pay tribute to the previous Member for Sunderland, North, Fred Willey. I know that Fred would not wish me to use too many words in honouring tradition when the pressing task is to speak for the shipyard workers, miners, other workers, and the workless, of Sunderland, the people for whom he spoke for so long and so persistently. Fred came into the House at the time of the great 1945 Labour landslide. It is sad that he should have left at a time when the Government clearly intend to continue apace the destruction of so much of what the 1945 Government achieved, which was built upon by subsequent Labour Governments. The most frequent comment made about Fred by so many friends and colleagues is that he was a man of the greatest courtesy and patience. It is idle to speculate on the degree to which his exceptional qualities would have been strained by what is now being perpetrated on the town which he represented for so long. I hope that he will understand if I fail from time to time to control my bitterness and anger to the same degree as he did at what is being done to my constituents. I make no apology for referring to bitterness and anger. I can only hope that I shall find the means to communicate succinctly to the House the irrelevance to my constituency of the talk of economic recovery and, more importantly, the real threat to democracy that begins to emerge in areas that have been all but abandoned. As my hon. Friend the Member for Copeland (Dr. Cunningham) has already said, the order is hardly relevant or helpful to the problems facing British Shipbuilders. An increase in borrowing power does not assist in winning new orders in the face of ruthless and unfair competition from the Korean yards. An increase in the borrowing limits does not alter the pitifully small intervention fund and the inadequate proportion of it that is available to win orders. It does not present British Shipbuilders with any opportunity for substantial investment in the industry; it merely reflects the increased debt due to the absurd level of interest charges that our shipbuilders face compared with those in other European countries and Japan. How I wish that we had been debating not a £100 million increase in borrowing limits but a £200 million emergency package of direct assistance to British Shipbuilders for the next year to help it to improve substantially the pay and conditions of a highly productive, hard-working underpaid work force, to enable BS to compete more effectively with its more heavily subsidised overseas counterparts. I wish, even more, that the Minister had made an announcement of immediate Government orders for our merchant yards—a scrap and build programme and proposals for tough and immediate action to force British shipowners to build in British yards as the Americans do with their industry. I question seriously the likelihood of the Government taking any action against the shipowners who talk so loudly of patriotism in other quarters while they have their ships built and repaired anywhere but in Great Britain. They pay their political levy to the Tory party and appear to be getting good value for their money. The Government  remain inactive and allow them to wreck a major British industry in pursuit of nothing but profit in the cheap labour markets of the far east. It is interesting to dwell for a moment on that political levy. British and Commonwealth Shipping Co. Ltd. paid £95,810 to the Conservative party in the 12 months up to August 1982. The entire political levy paid to the Labour party by trade unionists employed by British Shipbuilders is calculated to be about £37,800. It is less than the £40,000 donated by Trafalgar House, the owners of Cunard, to the Tory party in that year. In the light of what is being done to shipbuilding, it is scandalous that the Secretary of State for Employment shold have come to the House last week with proposals intended to restrict the political levy paid to the Labour party while at the same time refusing blatantly to interfere with the political levy paid by companies to the Tory party. Nor is it true, as the Secretary of State for Employment claimed last week, that shareholders do not complain about such payments. Tyne and Wear county council, distressed by the Government's cavalier attitude towards industry, has written, as administrator of a local government pension fund with investments in excess of £130 million, to every major company with whom it has money invested, asking why they have donated money to the Conservative party. Councillor Michael Campbell, the leader of Tyne and Wear county council, attended the annual general meeting of Trafalgar House to voice anxiety about Cunard's disgraceful attitude towards British Shipbuilders. I hope that hon. Members will pay close attention to such factors when considering the trade unions' political levy. The meagre and utterly inadequate nature of tonight's order reflects the criminal philosophy followed by the Government. In my view — tonight's statement reinforces it — the Government's attitude, as other Opposition Members have suggested, is to let shipbuilding go under and to write it off. We are told continually by the Government that we cannot hang on to dying industries and that we must look towards small businesses, new technology and so forth. I shall show what utter and tragic nonsense that is in my constituency. The borough of Sunderland already has 25,885 people unemployed. That is over 20 per cent. of the work force. In many areas of the borough, it is over 50 per cent. This month another 4,500 shool leavers will join the search for work. They will join the other 26,000 in competing for 52 vacancies. About 1,100 of the 1,800 redundancies referred to by my hon. Friend the Member for Copeland will take place on the river Wear. British Shipbuilders will then employ less than 6,000 on the Wear. Two of the pits which, according to the report of the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, should be closed are within the Sunderland district and others nearby employ thousands of Sunderland's workers. The collapse of British Shipbuilders on the Wear, and the closure of the pits threatened by the hit list, which has been for so long denied but which is now so clearly confirmed, would lead to over 9,000 direct redundancies in those two companies in the borough of Sunderland. Allowing for the most sober estimates of the effect on companies and services directly and exclusively dependent on British Shipbuilders and the National Coal Board, we should face unemployment of 58,000–45 per cent. of the work force. That is before we take into account all the spin-off effects of such a collapse of work. How many fish and chip shops or   microchip shops, video pirates, second hand car dealers, information technology agencies and disinformation opinion pollsters will it take to replace even the tiniest fraction of those jobs in pits and shipyards? On the river Wear, where once we built half the world's tonnage of shipping, the two British Shipbuilders subsidiaries, Sunderland Shipbuilders and Austin Pickersgill, have taken on the grand total of 10 apprentices each this year. What possible hope can we have for the future of all the skills and traditions for which Sunderland is known throughout the world, when, out of 4,500 school leavers, the town's biggest employer takes on only 10 apprentices? The Prime Minister should remember the Austin Pickersgill yard—she has been there twice to perform the ceremony of launching a ship. On the second occasion, the entire work force chose to clock off and go home before the launch to demonstrate their contempt for her policies. On both occasions she praised the efficiency and speed of production methods in the yard and called it an example of the achievements of British enterprise. I wonder whether she would dare come back now and face that work force, which is facing 700 redundancies out of the 1,100 already mentioned, when her policies have led to such despair and demoralisation and when this example of successful enterprise takes 10 apprentices this year and faces 700 redundancies. Last year, 522 young people applied for apprenticeships at Austin Pickersgill. This year, the applications have dropped by nearly half, to under 300. That is a measure of how the youth of our town is increasingly giving up. More and more see no point in the search for work, see no hope for the future and have sunk to the utmost apathy and general hostility to our society. Among all the froth and petty point-proving analysis of the fate of all parties at the general election, the most important fact is the increase in those, particularly young people, who have no wish to vote. In areas in my constituency, they will not even answer the door to any party. They are drifting away from any interest in the democratic process. As their numbers increase, and their despair intensifies, their passivity will not continue. Increasingly, they will retaliate with nihilistic fury against the society that has imposed this misery upon them, and our speculations about the relative fortunes of one parliamentary party or another will be placed in a different perspective by their activity. Measures of the kind that we are considering will be exposed as not merely inadequate, but irrelevant.
