gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That this House, noting the injustice and frustration suffered by people who are now liable to incur the loss of their pension rights if they change their employment, calls upon Her Majesty's Government to take urgent action to ensure that pension rights can under no circumstances be extinguished and in every practicable case should be made fully transferable on change of employment if required by the beneficiary. When I was elected for South Kensington I thought that I was probably one of the luckiest men in British politics. When, on my arrival in this House, I won the Ballot for Private Members' Motions in my first month I thought that I was also one of the luckiest Members in the House. I wish that I had the expertise in advocacy and the distinguished legal mind of my extremely popular predecessor, Mr. William Roots. He was loved in all parts of this House, and I am extremely glad to be able to report that he is continuing to make good progress in his health. His wife told me only today that he is definitely on the mend. My predecessor would have been able to make much better use than I can of this opportunity and I therefore ask the House to be indulgent, as it is the first occasion that I have spoken here. This Motion is not a matter of party controversy, because during the last election both the radical parties, and the Conservative Party, also, included a recommendation in their manifestos that something should be done about it. Although the distant objective is quite clear to us all, the way to it is a stony one and it goes through a veritable minefield of technicalities. The way is littered with Private Members' Bills, official reports, Government surveys and the like—all have either been abandoned or neglected. The basic facts are these. Probably between 12 and 14 million people are now covered by occupational pension schemes, and the number is reputed to be growing at the rate of about 500,000 people a year. About 4 million of those people are included in statutory schemes—that is, schemes covering the Civil Service, local government, nationalised industries and other statutory bodies. The remainder are covered by at least 60,000   separate schemes. All the best schemes aim to offer between half and two-thirds of final salary at the completion of the beneficiary's career, plus, in some cases, a lump sum. But conditions vary enormously and it is extremely difficult to generalise. The total amount being subscribed to all these different types of scheme, taking employers and employees together, is said to be well in excess of £1,000 million a year. The law covering all these schemes is an almost incomprehensible tangle, and it has never dealt adequately with the circumstances which arise when people change their jobs and wish to move their pension from one scheme to another. The initiative to put the matter right rests not with the employers or with the trustees of the many various schemes, and certainly not with the Inland Revenue, but with Parliament. Until something is done, continuing loss will be suffered by the large number of people who change their jobs every year. The best estimate which one can obtain suggests that the extent of these losses is now about £1 million every week. I believe that a very high proportion, certainly the majority, of all the people at work in Britain today are not making the fullest use of their experience, training and capacity. When we say that something is wrong with the British economy, we are simply speaking in an abstract way. What we should say is that there are millions of people working in places or organisations where, whether they know it or not, they are less usefully and less gainfully employed than they might be. This is a situation where Parliament could usefully intervene in the working of the economy, and it should do so without delay. The country needs people who are prepared to move from one firm to another in order to broaden their experience and so make themselves fit later in their careers for the responsibilities of general management. This is especially necessary in an industrial world which is tending increasingly towards specialisation. We need people who are willing to change their jobs to help with industrial training or themselves to take extended courses of training. Above all, we need people with resources behind them which will make it possible for them to walk into their works  manager's or export director's office, or perhaps the office of the chairman of the firm for which they are working, and say, ""I do not like the way in which you are running this organisation. I am leaving."" Unfortunately, this all too seldom happens. We need people who are able to take this initiative so that they can exercise the pressure for efficiency which could undoubtedly be raised if people in the junior and intermediate ranks of management had greater independence. What goes for the private sector of industry and business, I am sure, goes equally, if not more so, for the public sector. Apart from the purely economic issues, we must consider the question of justice. I heard a few days ago of a Member of the House, a man highly respected on both sides of the House, who, when he came here, lost pension rights which had accrued on his behalf for over 28 years. If I may be excused a personal note, I spent about one-third of my working life with one of our largest industrial organisations. When I left a few years ago I was allowed to draw out of the pension fund a sum of money which was equal to, I suppose, only about a quarter of the genuine asset value of the accrued pension rights standing in my name. But I was fortunate, because had I been working in a firm with one of the so-called non-contributory schemes I should have received nothing at all. In these days it is very difficult for a man, particularly a white collar worker, to amass any savings before middle life, because while he is waiting to reach his maximum rate of earnings he is probably running into the highest rate of outgoings that he will encounter in his career. He is probably paying for his house and bringing up his children at the same time. It is therefore important that he should be able to protect the savings which he has been able to make by joining an occupational pension scheme. I turn to specific recommendations. I hope that in doing so I shall not weary the House, but this is a highly technical subject and one is bound to be specific if one is to make any useful contribution. Connoisseurs of this subject will recognise that at several points I differ from the findings of the Morgan Report, which was published about two years ago by the   Ministry of Labour. I pay tribute to that Report in many respects, but it was rather timid in some of its conclusions. What it says about the significance of the problem of the transferability of pension rights on the mobility of labour is so utterly at variance with my own observation and, I think, that of people who have more experience than I have of the case work involved when people are seriously considering changing their jobs, particularly for white collar workers and worker over 40 years of age, that its findings should be treated with considerable reserve. First, I suggest that we should appoint a Registrar of Approved Pension Funds. At present, pension funds fall between several stools. They may come within the purview of the Registrar of Friendly Societies; they may come under the Registrar of Non-Participating Employments; or, perhaps, they are simply supervised by the Inland Revenue which, in this respect, is acting rather outside its proper capacity. The Registar should oversee the creation of new schemes and, what is particularly important, the amendment and amalgamation of existing schemes. He should adjudicate in disputes and settle problems arising from transfers, and he should publish regular reports. It is ridiculous that in order to find out what is happening in this immensely important sphere we should have to arrange for the Government Actuary to make spot checks on the situation every 10 years or so and publish a report which cannot be final or conclusive. The cardinal principle should be established that in all pension schemes seeking the relief of taxation on accruing interest and capital gains, the fund should be seen to he the inalienable property of the beneficiary. Once the employer has made his contribution to it, no part of the fund should be deemed to be the property of the employer. It is quite wrong that for disciplinary reasons, or when employees leave the firm, the employer should have any option to recover what he has paid into the pension fund. If employers wish to give long-service bonuses or awards of that kind as a right, there is no reason why they should not do so; but they should not expect to be able to claim the benefit of the valuable special concessions in taxation  which are allowed for the purpose of building up pension funds on behalf of their employees. Pension rights, in other words, should be identified firmly and finally as deferred pay and should not be seen to be a fund partly or wholly belonging to employers. I think—and this is an important point although a rather technical one—that we should establish clearly the difference between a transferable pension and a preserved pension. For a person to take his pension with him when he moves from one firm to another is generally much more favourable than building up a series of frozen pensions left behind with former employers. This is not simply because of the effects of inflation, but because the best schemes—indeed, a very large number of schemes, and I believe that the number is increasing—calculate pension by length of service multiplied by final salary. It is obvious from the arithmetic that it is better that all the pensions should be calculated from the final employment than that one should draw a group of pensions which cannot, in the nature of things, give such a favourable result. I think, also, that the concept of full transferability is implicit in the State graduated pension scheme, which was introduced by my right hon. Friend the Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter); and the public are now used to it. Therefore, we should make clear that transferability is our objective and that preservation is a very second-class object. It is only a residual object in cases where full transferability is not possible. There will always be cases where transferability is not practicable or, for one reason or another, not really desirable for the beneficiary. I recommend that beneficiaries should then have the option to take a lump sum and invest it with an approved fund, in much the same way as a self-employed person can do. I have considered the option to take a lump sum in part exchange for pension rights and I think that it should be extended to cover all types of scheme. At present, it is preponderantly in the public sector that that option is available and it is considered an extremely valuable one by members of the Civil Service. If it was also available in private sector   schemes, it would remove the anomaly which prevents free movement between the public sector and the private sector, to the great benefit of both and particularly of the employee. I have also considered the arguments for withdrawing the facility which allows employees to take a refund of their contributions when they change jobs. I consider that this should continue. In this, I realise that I am flatly at variance with the Morgan Report, but it is extremely hard to tell people who have put money, sometimes voluntarily, into pension schemes that it is no longer their own but belongs to the trustees of the scheme. Indeed, I would go further and extend the facility to take out a part of the accrued pension right on change of employment to those in the so-called non-contributory schemes, at least as to one-quarter or one-third of the value which has accrued for them. We are not trying to maximise pensions. Our object is to protect the rights of the individual and to encourage mobility of labour. I think it reasonable, however, if the option of the employee to take back his own contributions is retained, that the rate of tax which is charged on such refunds should be reviewed, because an entirely artificial formula is used and it no longer seems to be realistic. I have three further specific recommendations to make. First, I think that the restrictions should be withdrawn on the amount of pension which the final employer may give where there is a possibility of only 10 or under 20 years of service. This question of the uplifted sixtieths takes us into the most fantastic realm of bureaucracy. The sooner that the injustice which goes with the opera-of that concept is swept away, the better it will be. I think that the upper limit of £3,000, which has been imposed on some type of pension whether a higher figure been earned or not, should also be withdrawn. Lastly, I recommend that full tax benefits should be given for short-service schemes which envisage the possibility of early retirement or redundancy on the Army pattern. This  is not the occasion to explain in greater detail why I foresee that schemes of this kind will become increasingly necessary, but they should have a real and permanent place in some types of occupation. If we are contemplating a radical revision of the rules affecting occupational pension funds, we should take account of the fact that there will be an increasing need for pensions in industry and business to be calculated in the same way as they are for the Armed Forces. The House has been extremely indulgent with me and I would like to conclude by saying only this. It has been suggested lately that nothing could be done to protect pension rights in occupational schemes until the Government have brought in their new graduated State scheme, but unless the Government intend to wipe out occupational schemes altogether, which seems to me to be inconceivable, the law which governs them will still need to be changed. I can see no excuse for delay. Millions of people are affected by this matter. I hope that as a result of this debate something will be done, and done at once Where there is a will, there is a way.
