gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is a hallowed tradition of the House that a maiden speech should be uncontroversial and I shall certainly do my incompetent best to honour that tradition even at risk of sounding castrated. There are always people who take on the mantle of the true custodians of the manifesto. As a modest newcomer to the House I would not dream of taking on that task on behalf of Labour's manifesto if only because my constituents have made it clear that it is not Members of Parliament but they and their fellow citizens who are the custodians of that manifesto. It is they who will take decisive and terrible action if the policies of that manifesto are not carried out. Central to the manifesto was the abolition of the statutory control of wages. My constituents wish to see that control removed at the earliest possible opportunity. There should be no mistake about it. My constituents have given the Government no mandate to appease frustrated office seekers from the Celtic fringes; no mandate to appease nationalist hiccups from Scotland; no mandate to appease boisterous hymn singers from Northern Ireland; no mandate to appease 296 losers led by one who promised them glory and the dream only to end up by giving them sackcloth and ashes; no mandate to appease the harlots of the proprietorial Press as they are referred to in the High Streets of Huddersfield and Huyton. My constituents did not vote for consensus politics, still less for any grand alliance. One could not help noting that the proposal for a grand alliance came only after the cream-puff Lib-Con coalition had fallen through. I always thought that grand alliances were agreements entered upon between countries such as Ruritania and Luxembourg a hundred years ago. Perhaps that is where the new Liberal non-think comes from. What with the grand alliance, and   curing inflation by taxing it, these political streakers will soon be suggesting knee bandages as a cure for cancer. Since the election many of my constituents have expressed concern at the attitudes of the Press towards the Queen's Speech and Labour's manifesto. They are worried that the Press seems, within days of the election, to have developed a whole new theory of immorality in politics where the only principle to be observed is lack of principle. The Press say that Labour can do anything except what was promised to the electorate. For years these people have aroused, and rightly so, the people's anger, contempt and cynicism for politicians who promised one thing when out of office and another thing when they were in. Now they turn logic on its head. Labour must drop its plans for Socialism and fundamental change. A curious and unholy trinity of proprietors, editors and lobbyists has raised to the status of a virtue what most of us would regard as a vice. My constituents are only too well aware that all the optimism of the Queen's Speech—and they are well pleased with much of what they hear—could turn sour if my right hon. Friend the Chancellor, as has been rumoured, introduces a deflationary or even a disinflationary Budget. The economy does not need deflating. It is riddled with deflationary pressures. The three-day week, with output at 70 per cent. to 80 per cent. of normal, has been savagely deflationary. The cuts in public expenditure, which, it is now apparent, are real, will further deflate the economy in the autumn. Oil taxes are having a deflationary effect already. Yet given the balance of payments deficit and given the frightening forward projections of that deficit my right hon. Friend the Chancellor will not be short of gnomes of various hues, the Governor of the Bank of England, the Head of the Home Civil Service, bankers from the IMF and others of yesterday's demand management economists, to suggest deflation. That advice should be ignored by my right hon. Friend. For a few years we must be prepared to accept balance of payments deficits, which would once have been unacceptable, in the realisation that growth and the fruits of North Sea oil will radically  alter the situation in the early 1980s. We must accept also that it is not possible to cure the balance of payments deficit by further devaluation of the pound. The pound is already undervalued, and we must make it clear that the inevitable loans from the world's bankers which are needed to tide us over the next few years will not be acceptable if they carry with them deflationary strings. The strategy, then, must be one of modest reflation, and that could best be achieved by taking £2,000 million from the better off and giving it to the worse off in our society. That might consist of £400 million from a wealth tax, £400 million from a capital receipts tax, £200 million from an advertising tax, £200 million from a tax on bank profits and speculators and several hundred million in income tax on incomes over £4,000 per annum. Socially just and Socialist, this policy would also be economically sound by injecting money into the economy precisely when deflationary pressures look as though they will take effect. It would be a modest form of deficit financing and put money into the economy at a stage when it is needed. To that we must combine controls on capital movements, import controls, export subsidies, both open and disguised, fundamental changes in VAT and possibly its replacement with SET or some new form of differential payroll tax. We must surely use all these measures to increase home consumption and exports so that in the end we may get the increase in investment which we did not seem to get by tackling the problem straight on and giving handouts to British industry. One thing which has perplexed me is that the tone and content of the debate have been discernibly different from the tone and content of the debate at the Labour Party conference. Take public ownership for example. No one could say that this House has captured the spirit, excitement and imagination of the conference proposals. Yet there is surely one vital and small step that this House could take. It could renationalise the Bank of England and if that institution could be made properly accountable to the Government and to this Parliament we could, at a stroke and without too much fuss, bring in public control of the financial institutions of the City. That would be a considerable boon to the   300 hon. Members who see public ownership as a vital weapon of national policy. I end with a compliment to the Queen. She forsook the language of Humpty Dumpty— When I use a word it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more nor less. The Queen used words in their ordinary meaning. I ask the right hon. Member for Sidcup (Mr. Heath) and his right hon. ventriloquist's dummy, the right hon. Member for Devon, North (Mr. Thorpe), and their side-kicks in the media to follow suit. Recently they have distorted the language almost beyond repair. Words such as ""moderate"" and ""extremists"" have been abused. The right hon. Member for Sidcup is a self-styled moderate, yet in his reign of office he did what no politician should ever do. He pressed the button for Nemesis and began to lay waste the whole of the British economy. My constituents would not call that moderation. In contrast my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Employment is seemingly an extremist. How do I know? I know because the media says so. Yet within 24 hours of taking office he had solved the miners' dispute and put the country back on to a five-day week. If that is extremism my constituents will want to see more of it every day of the week. My constituents are glad that the Cabinet contains my right hon. Friends the Secretary of State for Employment, the Secretary of State for Industry and the Secretary of State for Trade. My constituents know that such a Cabinet will talk sense rather than nonsense. But surely the time has come for the defeated, the humiliated, and the irrelevant to stop insulting those 20,083 people who voted Labour in Luton, West and the 11,661,000 people who voted Labour in the country. Let the Opposition gang up by all means on the Government and defeat them in the Lobbies, but let them also pay the penalty. The public will not tolerate, and should not be made to tolerate, the party political games of the Opposition and the Liberal Party. If defeated, let the Prime Minister advise the Queen that the Government should go to the country. Surely man's folly cannot be so infinite. There are still people on the  Opposition benches who believe that the salvation of the nation lies in a statutory control of wages. If they believe that they should take their policies to the polls and perish.
