gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome this opportunity to make my maiden speech in today's important Budget debate and I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me. I congratulate the hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Murphy) on his interesting maiden speech and I can assure him that there are plenty of conveniences in Weston-super-Mare. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir Jerry Wiggin, who represented Weston-super-Mare for 26 years. He was notable for his strong and uncompromising views and his tenacity in representing the constituency for that length of time. I should particularly mention Sir Jerry's long service; I am always ready to rise to a challenge and it will be my aim to reach or even surpass his achievement—God willing. Weston-super-Mare has enormous charm, and I thoroughly recommend it to my colleagues in the House. It has a mixture of old charm and modern technology. The sea front is almost without modern high-rise buildings—   a rare thing now. It has a pier to rival any other, and many other attractive seaside features. We soon hope to attract even more money from tourists at a new casino—perhaps colleagues might care to have a dabble. A traditional yet forward-looking resort, it is one of the first in the country to get on to the Internet. Weston-super-Mare is full of small businesses, with hotels, guest houses, a great variety of shops—many small and privately owned—manufacturing companies, distributors, and information technology and engineering firms. That is why I am particularly glad to be the Liberal Democrat small business spokesman, especially as I have a background as managing director of a small manufacturing company. This Budget should be about strengthening the economy and creating jobs; I should like to plead the cause of small businesses. Small businesses account for nearly 40 per cent. of total United Kingdom turnover and employ 50 per cent. of the total private sector work force. If just one job were created in every small business, it would solve the unemployment problem overnight. I am especially glad to be making my maiden speech on business matters, because the previous Liberal Member of Parliament for Weston-super-Mare, Mr. Frank Murrell, was also in business; in his maiden speech on 30 May 1924, he spoke on industrial councils and about minimising unemployment—a subject still current today. The small business field has had a tough time and now is the time to revitalise and support it. My colleagues and I warmly welcome the Government's proposed late payment Bill and I shall do all I can to work with the Government to ensure that a sound Bill is passed. That may help to answer the concern expressed earlier about cash flow in small businesses. Another approach we have long argued for is the establishment of regional development agencies—a proposal now in consultation. I am glad that one of the agencies' main aims will be to support the small business sector. What do small businesses need that the Government or devolved agencies can provide? They need regionally based economic development and investment plans involving local people to provide opportunities for growth. Businesses need a fairer rating system, collected locally and with the receipts used locally. In the past, many attempts have been made to give support to, or establish schemes of various sorts for, small businesses, but, in my experience as a small business man, such schemes have frequently been short term and variable throughout the country. In addition, much money has been wasted by duplication of effort and vast bureaucracies and not enough has reached the intended point of delivery. That is why the whole of the past approach to giving the support and help that businesses need must be re-examined and slimmed down—concentrated, not duplicated. We need to use the best practice, one-stop-shop approach. A serious reassessment of the whole business support system is needed and I hope that the Government will consider doing that. The Government must now realise that we are at an economic crossroads—a moment of decision when we can either push the economy forward or take a step back. It is not a difficult decision to make. It is now that we must capitalise on our skills and go up-market into high-value-added goods and high-skilled production. That means valuing our businesses, both large and small. Large firms are shifting from being conglomerate businesses to being slimline enterprises, and small businesses are playing a bigger role as suppliers of specialist services. Small firms represent the bulk of employment in Great Britain, yet we are still failing to give them the structures and support that they need. Part of that support can be achieved by giving businesses stability. We have to reduce the short-termism in Britain's economic cycle. The handing over of some responsibility to the Bank of England is a step in the right direction, but we must also allow local authorities to raise private finance for investment in local communities. Small businesses require stable and sustainable growth in a low-inflation environment, with an independent bank and a realistic inflation target. Long-term investment in this country's productive capabilities and responsible fiscal management are needed to ensure that that comes about. We can no longer put up with politically motivated tax cuts and the continuation of the boom-bust cycle. However, I welcome the investment help for small businesses announced in the Budget. The Budget must be about creating stability in our economy and putting more money into things that matter—education and health. Hard decisions may have to be taken, but let us take them—the interests of the people of this country come first. For the sake of our future generations, we cannot squander the opportunity to get our education system back on track and to provide everybody with high-quality care. However, today's Budget means that, once again, taxes are being raised by the back door. The windfall tax will inevitably hit consumers and pension fund holders; in addition, there is still a likelihood of higher council taxes. With the higher inflation forecast, that is a cause of great concern. We must also be concerned about the raiding of the contingency fund. Nevertheless, many of the intentions in the Budget are good and, with my small business hat on, I welcome the measures taken in that sector today.
