gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Knowing the friendliness which is always shown to new Members, I ask for the indulgence of the House on this occasion. I have the honour to represent a West London constituency which is largely residential, much of it consisting of streets lined with houses built between the years 1840 and 1890. Those hon. Members who are students of architecture will know that that is a very interesting period, and one which is worthy of increased respect. I welcome Part I of the Bill, which enables higher mortgages to be obtained in respect of older houses, and I welcome Part II even more. This will enable amenities to be improved by the provision of standard grants. There is, however, the more intangible aspect of the Bill which should appeal to hon. Members on both sides. By aiding the restoration and conversion of old property within our towns the Bill may reduce the threat of development on the outskirts. It is, perhaps, appropriate that I should make my maiden speech on the subject of house purchase on the same day that my own family is moving house. Other hon. Members who have moved into smaller quarters will know that it is practicable to do so only if one is scrupulously tidy. That applies to the whole of Britain where a very large population is living in a comparatively confined space. We have to be tidy. There is a danger that with the spread of so many towns and villages we may reach the stage where we do not know where our towns end and the countryside begins. By rehabilitating old property we shall make better use of areas already developed and shall be saving our countryside. I want to raise a few more detailed points which, I hope, will not be too controversial. The first concerns the operative date—1st January, I919. I am tempted to suggest that the most significant and most depressing change in English domestic architecture occurred almost exactly 100 years earlier, in 1819, but we must recognise that 1919 marked the introduction of newer but less durable types of houses, which are less worthy of investment than many houses built in the years before, in some cases even centuries before. I have always had the impression that building societies were rather hesitant to   advance money on any property which was not absolutely new. I am, therefore, glad that the White Paper which accompanies the Bill suggests that besides advancing loans on pre-I919 houses, the Government will be able to lend money to the same extent on houses built between 1919 and 1940. My second point concerns the limit of £2,500, which has already been mentioned by my right hon. Friend and by the hon. and learned Member for Kettering (Mr. Mitchison). This limit is bound to impose a varying restriction in different parts of the country. From inquiries I have made I can say that there are very few houses in my constituency which are for sale at £2,500 or less. I would suggest that there is an argument for increasing the limit in respect of houses in the London area, where the land values are so much higher than in the rest of the country. The Minister made provision for this differentiation in recent legislation. I also hope that when Exchequer loans are made in respect of pre-1919 houses they will not prejudice in any way the lending of money by building societies upon the more valuable older property, which is equally worthy of conversion and adaptation. Many of the roads in my constituency are tree-lined and bordered with the larger type of house built in Victorian days. While, under no circumstances, could these homes be classified as coming within the £2,500 limit, such is the scale and the solidity of their construction that they are eminently suitable for conversion into flats and maisonettes. Nowadays, as we all know, it is a common practice for smaller units and larger buildings to be sold as opposed to being let. I understand that today building societies will make advances on flats and on these smaller dwellings. Specific reference is made in Part II of the Bill to dwellings, while Part I refers to houses. I would suggest that, if these Exchequer loans are made for houses of that value, in certain approved cases they might also apply to portions of buildings or to flats. Were such a concession made, it would be welcomed by the large number of people who prefer that type of accommodation. I am glad to have had the opportunity to support a Bill which, I believe, will do a great deal to benefit those who are seeking homes and, at the same time, serve to modernise and to protect many of our older buildings.
