gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. I am sure that you will not misunderstand me if I say that I am equally grateful to the people of Peterborough for giving me the opportunity to do so. I know I shall be grateful for the indulgence of the House during the next few minutes. I echo what many of my new colleagues have said and express my appreciation of the helpfulness of the officers and staff of   the House. They epitomise the service which is the aspiration of us all. It is traditional to speak kindly of one's predecessor. In my case that is not a difficult task. Mr. Michael Ward was a diligent representative of Peterborough. He concerned himself with constituency problems and he was marked by perseverence, having stood many times against Sir Harmar Nicholls before he succeeded in winning the seat. Before that time Sir Harmar served the constituency well for 24 years. Michael Ward was a loyal party man and was liked—I have discovered—by hon. Members on both sides of the House. He was a conscientious Member whose voting record was substantially better than that of most of his colleagues. He can look back on his time in this place as the author of important consumer legislation through a Private Member's Bill—which success I hope to follow during the course of the parliamentary Session. I represent a constituency of great diversity, with a beautiful cathedral, which is much understimated by the tourist industry, a city built on the railway line and now prospering as a great engineering centre, a farming fraternity whose productivity stands as a high water mark and a challenge to industry, and a great defence base, RAF Wittering, to which I shall refer later. My constituency has a wide variety of ethnic groups—Asian, West Indian and European—and we are proud that we were among the first in the country to offer refuge both to the Ugandan Asians and to the boat people. We have good community relations and we intend to keep them that way. If the rural areas of my constituency are marked by continuity, as represented by those great homes Milton Hall and the Burghley estate, the city is marked by change. I pay tribute to the work of the Peterborough development corporation in developing the new town in and around the city. The constituency has more than a general interest in Northern Ireland. It has a political interest. As I have been speaking for a few minutes, it will not come as a great surprise if I tell the House that I was born, raised and educated  in Belfast. That makes me a rather rare Conservative Member and I hope that it will make it possible for me to contribute something that other hon. Members cannot contribute because they do not have my experience. I have been searched by security forces, I have inadvertently been caught up as an innocent bystander in a riot, I have seen my home city devastated and my family have been evacuated from their homes because of bomb threats. I should like the House to know that I have an emotional, as well as intellectual, commitment to peace in Northern Ireland. My constituency also have a security interest in Northern Ireland. In our debates, security is generally talked about in terms of the Army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, but we in Peterborough are proud of the work of the RAF Regiment in Northern Ireland in which my constituents based at RAF Wittering play an important part from time to time. That is an important part of the defence of the Province as well as of the country. We pay tribute not only to the work of the officers and men but to the fortitude of the families who have to be separated from their loved ones. Despite the importance of security, it cannot, of itself, solve the problems of Northern Ireland. We need a political framework and an initiative. The apparent lack of progress in the political arena is not encouraging. I know that in my maiden speech I am not meant to be controversial, though perhaps it is difficult not to be controversial in a Northern Ireland debate. However, I shall try. I am not being critical of the Government. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State and his Ministers have been in office for only a short time and I shall be glad, therefore, if the House will construe my comments as general remarks and not as being specifically critical. Alienation in our country is on the increase because of the problems of Northern Ireland. Time is not limitless and, although patience is a virtue, it is not a virtue endlessly. The hon. Member for Belfast, North (Mr. McQuade) has pointed out that there is a feeling in Northern Ireland that those on this side of the Irish Sea are not particularly   moved by the violence until it comes to their own doorsteps. An Ulsterman recently contrasted for me the fuss made when a 5 lb. bomb explodes in England with a relative lack of fuss made when a 500 lb. bomb explodes in Northern Ireland. No one condones either occurrence, but there is a general impression that our caring is commensurate with our exposure to violence. One of the emotional highlights of my election campaign was when I was stopped in Peterborough market by a man who has two sons serving in Northern Ireland. With tears in his eyes, he said to me ""Why do you make such a fuss when one of your politicians is killed, but not when soldiers are killed in Northern Ireland?"" Like me, that man held Mr. Neave in high respect. I have particular reason for my feeling because, while I was nursing my constituency, Mr. Neave spoke on my behalf and I learnt at first hand that he was not only a courageous man but a courteous, compassionate and gentle man. Since coming to the House I have learnt of the love that all hon. Members had for him. The point made to me was not a personal one in respect of Mr. Neave or myself, but the general point that our people perceive that the concern of the House is perhaps not as great as it ought to be. As a result, the standing of the House in the community is diminished. The tragedy in Northern Ireland is also causing alienation between the people of Northern Ireland and the people of the rest of the United Kingdom, because the actions of a small minority rub off on all of us who are unable to disguise our accents. When I was selected as the prospective parliamentary candidate for Peterborough, the initial debate was not ""Will he make a good Member?"" or ""What are his political views"". but ""Imagine choosing an Ulsterman to fight the seat."" There may be good reasons for doubting my ability to represent the people of Peterborough, but the accident of my birth ought not to be one. Those of us who were born in Northern Ireland find ourselves being tarred with a general, sweeping brush which puts strain on the union because it does not differentiate between one and another. One notices with concern an increasing alienation of the minority groups in Northern Ireland not only from the majority but from the rest of Great Britain. That alienation has caused at least pockets of the Province to be almost outside the rule of law and the orbit of the deliberations of the House. It is no good hon. Members, particularly my hon. Friends, saying that the minority groups ought not to be alienated or that, if they are, it is their own fault. Northern Ireland is blighted by its history. Those groups are alienated and it is on that basis that the House must move. Similarly, one notices an increased alienation in the majority groups in Northern Ireland. That also is understandable, because they are seeing their heritage and traditions being challenged and undermined. It is no good Opposition Members saying that those groups ought not to feel alienated or that if they do it is their own fault. The fact is that they are and that the House must recognise that fact. That alienation is based on a number of activities and a number of premises—the poor political representative system that now exists, the decline in traditional industries despite Government intervention, the increase in unemployment despite Government aid, and the determination of a small band of terrorists to wreak havoc irrespective of the cost. We all know that the devil finds work for idle hands to do. The argument is made that we cannot rush political initiative. In my not very long lifetime, the political rhetoric of Northern Ireland has never changed. I can cast my mind back over 25 years and remember similar people saying similar things to what is being said today. I must ask the Government, not in condemnation but as a spur to thought, what there is about the activities they are currently pursuing that will change the political rhetoric of Northern Ireland. Or does it have to remain the same through the lifetime of my children as well as myself? That political rhetoric and political activity will not change without a framework being established. That framework must be established by the Government on behalf not only of the people of Northern Ireland but of the people of the whole of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland is not simply a Northern Ireland problem. It is a   United Kingdom problem and must be seen in that context. If cynicism and alienation are not to increase, if killing is not to increase, if the standing of Parliament and our democratic principles are not to decrease, and if the union of our people is not to be threatened, we must, of course, take action on security. These orders are necessary, and must be supported. But political action also is necessary. It can be cautious and sustained but must be action which progresses the situation beyond the stalemate and the political ruts in which we find ourselves. Without it, all of us will be damaged. I am grateful for the tolerance and the indulgence of the House. I shall try to merit it in the future, though my expectations in that regard are not as great as they were today.
