gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to explain why the measures set out in yesterday's Queen's Speech will not benefit people in east Lewisham. First, however, let me say one or two words about my predecessors. Colin Moynihan had held Lewisham, East since 1983. For much of that time, he was a junior Minister. I sometimes wonder whether the fact that the press often dubbed him a very energetic person might have been the reason for his being moved from sport to energy. I acknowledge his work in the constituency, and I am sure that the House will join me in wishing him and his wife —he recently married—all the best for the future. Let me also mention Roland Moyle. He too was a Minister but served in a Labour Government. I want to put on record my thanks for his tireless work in the campaign for my election. I was honoured to receive his support, as I was to receive that of the people of east Lewisham. Mine is one of the three constituencies in the London borough of Lewisham. All three are now represented by Labour Members, supported by an important and efficient Labour council. From Blackheath to Grove Park and the Downham estate, the area is overwhelmingly residential, with little manufacturing industry: the main employers are local government and the health service. Therefore, most people have to commute to work using the dilapidated, rundown and often unreliable Network SouthEast or have to sit in the congestion and pollution of London traffic. Great hopes lay with the extension of the docklands light railway, but now even that is bathed in uncertainty. The people of east Lewisham have a community spirit. They want better quality services, not just for themselves but for their neighbours and those less fortunate than themselves. That is why they voted Labour. There is a history of rebellion against Government injustice. That is shown by the first rejection of the poll poll tax by Wat Tyler and John Ball on Blackheath. We also have our modern heroes: the community spirit was particularly apparent to the nation in the welcome given to Terry Waite. In the last election, the people of east Lewisham expressed their dissent with Government policies in a more conventional way than that of 1381. One of the many reasons for that dissent, apart from the transport policies, was the level of unemployment and the poor prospect of training, particularly for young people. It is that upon which I wish to concentrate. Unemployment in east Lewisham rose last year by a staggering 87 per cent. Long-term unemployment rose particularly steeply. Tragically for our young people, in whom I have a special interest as a careers teacher, there were 247 people chasing every job vacancy. It was the unemployment black spot of London. Only last month, on the Government's own figures, there were only 34 vacancies in the jobcentre and 17 in the local careers office. What hopes does that give to young people ready to play their part in the local community? What hope do the Government give to the three out of four young people in east Lewisham who have participated in Government training schemes and find, three months after completing them, that they are no closer to having a job? There was nothing in yesterday's Queen's Speech that touched their lives. Why will not the Government consider that quality training with a guaranteed job will build us a work force that can compete with anything that our competitors can do? Why do they not see that giving people the skills to work removes the alienation and brings positive results that benefit not just the individual but society and the economy as a whole? I want to speak briefly about a project in east Lewisham that is in desperate need of help. The local Rathbone Society has been training and supporting 50 local people with special educational needs. It has had the total backing of the provider agencies such as the Spastics Society and has trained people to work in retailing and care so that organisations such as the local council and Tesco have returned to it again and again to take on more of its trainees. It was funded through the training and enterprising council, although the money was paid directly to the national society. On Friday 10 April this year—I make no comment about the significance of that date—it was closed down.   Now, the 30 people who currently need the particular support given by their dedicated trainers are left with no idea of whether their training will he completed or whether there will be jobs for them to go to. Yesterday the Prime Minister said that he wanted to create a country in which everyone may realise their aspirations to rise as far and as fast as they can if they have the will and the skills to do so""—[Official Report], 6 May 1992; Vol 207, c. 73] Those young people have the will and their trainers have given them the skills. The real test of the Prime Minister's fine words will be whether the Government will give them the opportunity.
