gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me an opportunity of making my maiden speech so early in this Parliament. I represent North Kensington, a constituency which was for 25 years represented by my friend Mr. George Rogers. It is clear from what has been said to me by a great many hon. Members that he is remembered with great respect and affection here, as he is by a great many of his constituents. North Kensington is probably rather better known to the majority of the public as Notting Hill. It is recalled unfortunately, for the disastrous race riots which took place there in 1958. I am happy to be able to tell the House that race relations in Notting Hill have enormously improved during the last 12 years. I have lived in my constituency for a long time. I was fortunate in that I represented part of the constituency on the Kensington and Chelsea Council. I know the constituency and its problems very well. The chief of those problems is housing. North Kensington is an area with a proportion of council and housing trust property and some fine Georgian terraces and squares. Unfortunately, however, we also have a very large area of decaying Victorian terraced houses. They were built for the middle class but shortly after they were built, because of the railway development, they were occupied by working-class families living in densely multi-occupied conditions and have had few repairs or improvements since. They now contain some of the worst housing that one could find in London. We have a great many of the conditions which the Minister of Housing and Local Government found in Lambeth the week before last. With respect to the right hon. Gentleman, I consider that the solution  to the problems which he found in Lambeth, as to the problem which exists in my constituency, lies not so much with the Community Relations Commission as with local authorities throughout the country, his own Ministry and this House. Nobody in this House is likely to dispute that the only ultimate solution to the appalling housing conditions which still remain in many parts of the country is the provision of a greater amount of housing. Our differences arise as to the best means of providing it. It is, no doubt, true that we have reached a stage at which there is no longer an absolute shortage of houses throughout the country as a whole. A surplus of houses in the North, however, is of very little assistance in relieving the housing stress in London or the Midlands. On the contrary, the fact that there is a surplus of housing in the North is indicative of the fact that we are likely to have a situation in London which will get progressively worse, because as more and more people move from the areas where there is insufficient employment, and squeeze into the already over-crowded Midlands and South-East, the conditions of housing stress in these densely populated urban areas will get progressively worse. The first main point which I want to make to the House is that regional development policy is not only of concern to the areas which directly benefit from it. It is of the greatest importance to everyone who is concerned either with housing problems in the highly populated areas, or with the preservation or improvement of the environment in which all of us live and the quality of living for everybody, both of which will be immensely damaged unless we can counteract the economic forces which tend to press people to move out of the development areas and into the Midlands and the South-East. I believe that we are approaching the stage—in some respects we have already reached it—at which the ability to buy more consumer goods is of much less importance than the quality of the environment in which we live. By ""environment"" in this context I start with the size of one's living accommodation, the play space available to one's children, the quality of schools which one's children attend, the ability to get to and from work in a reasonable time   and under tolerable conditions, and access to a countryside which has not been completely built over. I hope that in making decisions about their regional policies, the Government will not allow their desire to avoid what the Minister of Technology described as ""unnecessary interference"" with business decisions to create a society in which we have material wealth but not the environment in which to enjoy it. The Queen's Speech promised a vigorous housing policy with the principal aim of improving the position of the homeless and the badly housed. The Report of the Cullingworth Committee on council housing has illustrated a large number of ways in which existing housing policies can be improved to ensure that the greatest needs are more quickly and efficiently met. I am sure that the Government will pay great attention to the views of that Committee. There is, however, one aspect of housing policy which is not referred to in the Cullingworth Report—that is, the need to preserve existing communities wherever possible and to ensure that where new estates and new towns are built, a real effort is made to provide the essential ingredients of a new community and not simply to create a collection of houses. In my constituency I have watched, and am still watching, the destruction of houses in which, despite appalling housing conditions, a sense of community has grown up. What is even more important, a sense of multi-racial community has grown up. We have streets in which families have lived for two or three generations. During the last five or 10 years immigrants have been moving into those streets, and during the last few years we have seen a new sense of community developing. We find in the slum areas of North Kensington that there is far less racial antagonism than there is in the more segregated areas where fewer black faces are to be seen. I have seen many of these streets which, inevitably and quite rightly, are going to be pulled down. It would be a great pity if, in pulling down those streets, we were to break up that sense of community which has been developed. I hope that the housing policies which we shall be seeing from the present Government and other Governments in future will take  great account of the overwhelming importance of ensuring that these communities are preserved. We have at present families in North Kensington being moved to the outer suburbs, and when new flats are built we have other families coming in from other and different areas and attempting to put down their rather uneasy roots in North Kensington. Thus two communities are broken, and it takes a long time for those communities to be replaced. I am sure that the Minister of Housing and Local Government will take careful note of two studies of Oldham, ""Living in a Slum"" and ""Moving out of a Slum"" recently published in his Ministry's Design Bulletin. I hope that the Minister of Housing and Local Government will also consider very carefully the plight of families living in furnished accommodation. Of the households in Kensington and Chelsea 35 per cent. occupy so-called furnished accommodation. Not, for the most part, because they want other people's furniture in their homes; not because they are single or transient; but because it is so easy for the landlords to opt out of the Rent Act by installing £50 worth of furniture and charging £150 a year more rent. Thousands of families with children are compelled to live in furnished accommodation, paying excessive rents, which they dare not refer to the Rent Tribunal for fear of eviction. I do not expect the Minister to anticipate the Report of the Francis Committee on the Rent Acts, but I was delighted to read in the Sunday Times the week before last that the Conservative Party's ""Daily Notes"" dated 12th June contained the passage: Conservatives believe that the fair rents system should be gradually extended to all privately rented homes. I believe, and many with much greater knowledge of the subject than I have agree with me, that extending the Rent Acts to protect furnished tenants will eliminate the greatest single source of housing stress. Instead of the present quite unworkable distinction—for even experienced lawyers find it impossible to predict which way the court will determine it—between furnished and unfurnished, we should substitute a distinction between tenancies where the landlord is the owner-occupier and those where he is not. It should be made easier for an   owner-occupier to get rid of a bad tenant, whether furnished or unfurnished, but all good tenants, whether of furnished or of unfurnished accommodation, should have the right to a fair rent, security in their homes, and the right to rehousing in the event of redevelopment. I believe this step would both increase the amount of accommodation offered to rent, and eliminate an enormous amount of the misery and exploitation which exists at the present time.
