gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you for calling me, Mr. Deputy Speaker and enabling me to make my maiden speech as the Member for Lichfield and Tamworth. I will be as brief as possible, since the hour is late,  but I will endeavour to make the best use of the time available. On the only previous occasion on which I visited this House, other than as the Member for Lichfield and Tamworth, I sat in the Strangers' Gallery and listened to a debate. It will give hon. Members a good idea of the timing of that debate if I tell them that the Minister speaking was Mr. Ernest Marples, the then Minister of Transport. I well remember that he was talking about the advanced driving test. He said that there were only 10 Members of the House who had passed the test and he was pleased to say that they were all Conservatives. There was a clearly audible rejoinder ""You are the only ones with cars."" I am happy to say that times have changed since then and they are not the only ones with cars. Certainly things have changed in my constituency. I find myself following on as Member from Major-General d'Avigdor-Goldsmid, who was a hardworking constituency Member. Before him, for a long period, there was Julian Snow, who will be well known to many Members of the House, and well known nationally, as well as much respected and admired in the constituency of Lichfield and Tamworth. The constituency has changed enormously since the first days when a constituency of that name existed, and it has grown enormously. I represent about 90,000 electors. In view of my correspondence at the moment, it strikes me that when we debate the question of the pay of Members of Parliament a plausible argument will be that we should be paid according to the number of electors that we represent. That would mean that I should be paid five times the amount of the Leader of the House. It may not, therefore, be a proposal that would be acceptable. My constituency is large, and it is one with large and new housing estates. It is for that reason that I want to make three brief references to the Queen's Speech which I think are particularly relevant to my constituency. I said that there are large housing estates. On these large housing estates, municipal and privately-owned estates, there is one single issue which would cause much popularity particularly among the young people   living on those estates; namely, the question of nursery education for those with young families. I see with great pleasure that there is a reference in the Queen's Speech to nursery education and to the determination of the Government to ensure that nursery education is given priority. Although I have been involved in higher education, I think that the whole balance of our expenditure on education should be shifted towards the younger age groups and, in particular, to the nursery groups. Anyone with a four-year-old child, or anyone who has had a four-year-old child, will know well enough that children of that age are ready for school, ready for the contact that school provides, and many of them are bored at home and their mothers are bored at home with them. It is important and desirable to concentrate our education expenditure at that end of the scale. Secondly, I am in an area of rapidly expanding housing—both municipal housing and private. Yet it is still an area where there are massive housing problems. It is still an area where people are queueing for houses, where most of the letters that I receive are about housing. There is no way in which we could devote too much of our resources to solving the housing problem. There are the heartbreak cases, which every hon. Member meets in his constituency, of people living with their parents and of young couples with children who have no hope of getting any type of house. I shall look with great interest at the development of the Government's housing programme as outlined in the Queen's Speech. There is nothing that could do more for people on the mailing lists of Members of Parliament than doing something about the housing problem, and ""something"" means to build more houses, and particularly more houses for rent. People need the choice. In many cases they have no choice, but development of the rented sector is something that must receive a major priority. The third and final matter to which I wish to refer is important to my constituency and important as an item in the Queen's Speech, and that is democracy in the National Health Service. There is  just a brief reference to this in the Gracious Speech. It talks about consultation in order to develop democracy in the health service. I happen to think that, next to housing, the things that causes more distress, anxiety and stress among the people of this country are matters concerned with health, sickness, disease and the like. I also happen to think that we should be in for a revolution in the relationship between the medical profession and the people whom it serves. This will be achieved only if greater democracy is built into the health service. We have an odd situation at the moment. If I take my car into a garage to have it mended I am entitled to have, and I shall receive, a full report on the way that the car has been dealt with—the treatment, if one likes, that it has received, and the alternative ways in which it can be repaired, and so on. If, on the other hand, a relative is treated in a hospital and one goes along to the hospital, as I have done recently, as I am sure have many other hon. Members, and asks ""What about the treatment that this relative has received? What about the cancer? How did it grow? What about the methods of dealing with it? What about the alternative solutions?"", that is regarded as heresy by many members of the medical profession. I am from the teaching profession, and we have had to learn in that profession that the people whom we serve can take part with us and discuss with us the best ways of dealing with the service. Exactly that kind of development is needed within the medical profession. That will be achieved only by an injection of greater democracy into the medical profession and by making the medical profession and the hospitals properly responsible to the electorate through some form of local council. I am delighted to see those three items —housing, education and health—in the Queen's Speech. I am sure that, as the representative for Lichfield and Tam-worth, when I go back to my constituents I shall find that they, too, are delighted about that.
