gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing this House. I am most grateful for the indulgence which I know is extended on such occasions. I have the honour of representing a division in East Sussex which not only includes a very great deal of excellent farm land but also the attractive towns of Rye and Bexhill. I have done my best to see how I could link those towns with the matter which we are discussing today, and I very much regret to say that there are probably few divisions in the country with less direct interest in the matter that is now before us. One thing which I know I must do on the first occasion on which I am addressing the House is to avoid controversy. I should indeed have liked to have made a few observations on the remarks that have just been made by the hon. Member for Ogmore (Mr. Padley), but I must confine myself to saying that, although I know the declaration that one happens to be a lawyer means one gets a very cool reception in this House, little did I know that I should be received with such a speech of welcome as the one which we have just heard. I welcome the Bill, and particularly do I welcome the decision which the President of the Board of Trade has taken to see that the decisions that are to be made will be made by the courts. I have had a little experience of some administrative tribunals, and I know that some of them do a great deal of good work; but I believe that, as regards this problem, there is nothing which could deal with it as effectively as a Division of the High Court, as the President has suggested. I know that some hon. Members have complained that one of the difficulties about the High Court is the precedents which it provides. I believe it will be part of the strength of this particular organisation. We shall have precedents laid down which will be clearly and fully appreciated by the people who have to administer the law. Although I believe that it is a great advantage to have the High Court dealing with this problem, that fact lays upon us a very great responsibility to see that we define very clearly the principles which the court has to administer, and that is why I wish to examine the provisions of Clause 16. To my mind, those provisions are the kernel of the Bill. No matter what the other organisation may be, if it should so happen that Clause 16 is not properly defined or causes difficulty when it comes before the Court, all the administration and organisation will be very little use. Therefore, that is the reason why I would ask for a little clarification about some of the provisions of Clause 16. The heading in the margin claims this Clause deals with the public interest. This may be a lawyer's question, but it is surely necessary to have a definition of ""the public."" In paragraph (a) of the Clause, we find that the public is defined in one way, while it is defined in another way in paragraph (b). I am wondering if it may not be helpful to have an indication of what exactly ""the public"" is intended to be. I believe I have detected in the speech of the President some suggestion that people outside this country will not be covered by this Bill, and I wonder whether somebody who happens to enter into an agreement, which is quite beneficial to some export trade, would be included as part of the public or not. I am very interested in trade in Canada. I am wondering whether an organisation in this country which happened to produce agreements of benefit to trade with Canada which would in other ways be covered by either of these definitions would be regarded as ""the public"" or would not be so regarded. I should be very grateful for some assistance from the Parliamentary Secretary on that point. The second question on which I should like to have a little help is the exact meaning of the so-called safety clause. The President has defined paragraph (a) as the safety clause, but I would ask my right hon. Friend and his Parliamentary Secretary to have a look at that paragraph, and, for example, say whether the words— the public in connection with the purchase, consumption, installation or use of goods requiring special knowledge or skill in that connection;  mean, in fact, what the President said when he was telling us that the safety clause was designed to protect the public. I am not at all sure that these words would stand up to a test in the courts, and I should be very grateful for any assistance which I might obtain as to the exact principle which it is desired should be applied there. There also seems to me to be some difficulty about paragraph (f), on which I should like to have some help. There are two conditions contained there as a basis for exemption which have to be proved. The first is— … a serious and persistent adverse effect on the general level of unemployment""— I wonder if that does not mean ""employment,"" because an adverse effect on employment would have exactly the result which is intended here— in an area, or in areas taken together, I have in mind a small association which has a certain number of associated works which are distributed fairly widely throughout the country. I do not believe that any one of these would fit inside ""an area"" in the sense which, perhaps, the President has in mind here. It would be helpful if my right hon. Friend would indicate whether the area of which he is thinking is that of a county or an area in which a particular industry is normally grouped, and whether the association which I have in mind would in fact be regarded as being in an area. Further, the association of which I am speaking is only a small one, and I am wondering whether it could ever qualify and show that there would be … a serious and persistent adverse effect on the general level of unemployment I wonder whether the Clause as drafted in fact means that only a very large concern would in fact be covered by these provisions. Looking at the second basis of exemption in paragraph (f) … or to cause a substantial reduction in the volume or earnings of the export trade of the United Kingdom; I would say that the particular association which I have in mind, although engaged in the export trade, will find it very difficult indeed in the circumstances to prove that whatever happens to it would result in a substantial reduction in the trade of the United Kingdom. Therefore, I think it would be helpful if the Parliamentary Secretary could give us a little   information on these two points connected with paragraph (f). I should also like some help concerning paragraph (g). It is suggested that it is of small importance, but I was not able to follow exactly what is intended to be covered. In order to bring oneself within its provisions it seems that one has to do so upon grounds other than those specified in this paragraph.… What grounds are they? There may be a very simple answer, but the only grounds of which I am aware are those which are specified in the paragraph. My hon. Friend the Member for Heywood and Royton (Mr. Leavey) mentioned the difficulties which we were experiencing as a result of competition from Germany and Japan. I am wondering whether a further provision should not be included in Clause 16 to cover exactly that difficulty. On a subsequent occasion we may find that an industry will be able to work out its own arrangements to deal with competition from such goods coming into the country, but nothing in the Bill seems to suggest that such an arrangement would be approved. It may be that the Government take the view that this is a matter with which they should deal, but I would much prefer to see an industry being given the chance of dealing with that sort of problem before it comes to the Government. I should be most obliged if the Parliamentary Secretary could say exactly why the last part of Clause 16 is expressed in the negative. I wonder what would happen if somebody asked the Parliamentary Secretary for advice as to what evidence should be brought before a court to prove that something had ""not operated"" and was ""not calculated to operate"" to the detriment of persons not parties to the agreement,"" and possibly persons of whom he knew nothing at all. I suggest that that is an impossible condition for any person to fulfil. The intention of the Government is quite obvious, but the provision is expressed in such a way that it puts the individual in grave difficulties in preparing a case to come before a court. I have raised these matters in connection with Clause 16 because that Clause seems to me to be the kernel of the Bill, and I should be very grateful for any assistance which the Parliamentary Secretary can give me in connection with it.
