gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The firmly entrenched tradition of this House, with maiden speakers, is that they do not make speeches of a controversial character, at least in a party political sense, and this must always impose damaging restrictions on what can be said when an important matter is under discussion. But there can be few maiden speakers who have found it temperamentally so difficult to conform to that tradition as I do, following immediately after the speech made by the right hon. Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher). I shall, of course, conform to the tradition. But I look forward to being free of its constraints on future occasions. We hear a great deal about Scottish nationalism and Welsh nationalism, and most of us do not accept or agree with the fundamental tenets of nationalist parties. But many of us agree with the view that there should be more devolution of powers and responsibilities to the regions and to those great countries. I invite hon. Members who have sympathy with that point of view to see that exactly the same applies to London. My right hon. Friend the Member for Deptford (Mr. Silkin) quoted Disraeli as saving that London is a nation. It is indeed a nation, and if we are to understand—and produce creative solutions for—the   problems of London, the first thing we must do is to get the scale of those problems right. The scale of the problems is in all important respects not that of a normal town but that of a normal country. The population of Greater London is larger than that of half the countries in Europe. The budget of local government in London is bigger than that of many whole European countries. But we who live in this great city do not expect it to function for us alone. We are well aware that it cannot, and indeed are proud of that. London makes an incalculable contribution to the life of the nation, to Europe, and to the world as a whole. It is a great seaport, a great trading centre, a great banking, financial, insurance centre, and so on. But I want to touch on one aspect of London life which is profoundly influenced by decisions made in this House, yet not discussed here as often as it should be. I refer to London as a pre-eminent cultural and artistic centre. Let us for a moment consider this aspect of our capital city. More books are published in London—I think I am right in saying—than in any other town in the world. More gramophone records of serious music are made in London than anywhere else. We have five major orchestras—the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the London Symphony Orchestra and the Royal Philharmonic, the New Philharmonia and the BBC Symphony Orchestra; the point I would emphasise here is that I can think of no other city in the world that has more than two. The Royal Opera Company and the Royal Ballet Company at Covent Garden are as fine as any opera or ballet companies anywhere in the world; and their youthful, enthusiastic and zestful rivals only a few hundred yards away at the Coliseum are now beginning to run them close. We have in London some 40 fully professional theatres, and the quality of acting that goes on in them is the envy of the world. The truth is that any ordinary fortnight of theatre and music in London, chosen literally at random, could constitute an annual festival of the arts in most capital cities. We have in London magnificent art galleries, and I  believe I am right in saying that London is the world centre for the buying and selling of works of art. We have a radio and television network based on London that is regarded throughout the world as the best in the world. All these things do not exist, as many still seem mistakenly to suppose, for a privileged few On any day of the week scores of thousands of Londoners of all cultural and social backgrounds, and all income levels and ages, pack into London's theatres, museums, art galleries, concert halls and opera houses. We have here an extraordinarily rich heritage, a marvellous inheritance which this House has done a great deal to help create, and which this House can do more to help preserve and promote. What can we do to help promote and expand these activities? We can abolish entrance charges to museums and art galleries. We can encourage the activities of serious authors by passing a Bill to enable them to get at least some financial recompense for the use which libraries make of their work. It is in this House, and quite soon, that the entire future structure and organisation of broadcasting in this country, both television and radio, will be decided. And I hope that we shall revise the whole pattern of assumptions whereby expenditure of tens of millions of pounds on a vessel of war goes through without discussion while at the same time every pinched penny spent on culture or the arts has to be fought for and vigorously defended. This is something on which local authorities in London can do a great deal, as well as those of us in this House. It used to be the case, and I expect it still is, that the one city of Berlin gave the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra a larger subsidy out of city taxes than our national Government gave to all the orchestras of Britain put together. I hasten to add that my own borough council of Waltham Forest is in the vanguard of enlightenment in this respect. It supports an orchestra known as the Forest Philharmonic Orchestra which will be giving a concert at the Royal Festival Hall a fortnight from tonight. As soon as this debate is over I hope that hon. Gentlemen will rush across the river for tickets. The intricate richness of London life is inexhaustible. It is hackneyed to quote   Dr. Johnson in this context, but hackneyed only because true: Sir, if a man is tired of London he is tired of life, for there is in London all that life can afford. This great city of ours—because of all the things I have mentioned, and because of a large number of other things that no amount of time would suffice to mention—induces a passionate attachment to it on the part of the people who live in it, the same kind of love and loyalty as, say, a patriotic Scot feels for Scotland. This must be understood if the attitudes of the people, and the life, of London are to be understood. To us bred-in-the-bone Londoners there are streets in this city as beautiful as valleys, parks as life-enhancing as farms, and such wonders as residential squares on quiet summer Sunday mornings like huge rafts floating in sunlight; and this greatest of cities is at the same time a conglomeration of villages, each with its own high street, its history peculiar to itself, and its ancient name. I was born in the High Street of one of these villages, indeed in a market; and my father, and both of his parents, were born within a few hundred yards of that same spot. That takes us back to their parents, well over 100 years ago. It is roots of this kind, below the ever-changing surface of London life, that provide a continuity, a stability, and an identity, which persist in London, and which people who do not look below the ever-changing surface seldom appreciate. My constituency consists precisely of two such villages, Leyton and Leytonstone, each with its High Street, its shopping centre, its station—and its own characteristic history. Leyton means ""Lea Town"", the town which grew up beside the River Lea, where there has been human habitation since the Bronze Age. The High Stone at the junction of Woodford Road and New Wanstead was put there by the Romans, and led to the name ""Lea Town Stone""—Leytonstone. Throughout that part of London, human beings living there 2,000 years ago and more—human beings now totally forgotten—have left a local habitation and a name. Looking round me, I can see the impatience on the faces of hon. Members to hear me at this point plunge into a  detailed history of my constituency over the past 2,000 years. But I shall have to deny them that keen pleasure. Even if I were to confine myself only to the last 1,000 years, it would make this too long for a maiden speech. For that reason, I jump straight to the present. And I approach our present situation by saying just a word or two about my predecessors as Member of Parliament for Leyton. For almost the whole of my lifetime, the constituency has been represented by two people. First of all there was Reg Sorensen, who was there for nearly 30 years. Then came Patrick Gordon Walker, who was there for nearly 10 years. Reg Sorensen was almost the model of a good constituency Member. Without personal ambition for himself, his sole desire was to give service to the people of Leyton, and to the Labour Party everywhere. I remember that 15 years ago when I was parliamentary candidate for Mid-Bedfordshire Reg Sorensen travelled down to that constituency and spoke for me more often than any other Member. There was no reward in it for him, and it was not even embarked on out of friendship, because he had not even met me. His sole desire was to serve: and I shall never forget him for it. Following him, and before my predecessor Patrick Gordon Walker came to the constituency, there was a slight hiccup, a startling blue flash, but it was appropriately short. When Patrick Gordon Walker came he was already Foreign Secretary; his position was inevitably different. Yet he continued the same tradition of devoted service to the people of Leyton. It is from him that the mantle has now descended—and I fear ""descended"" is the right word—on me. If I can do half as well as either of these men, I shall do well. Talking to them, and learning from them, I got the impression that ever since prehistoric man first built his house on wooden piles in Leyton Marshes, the biggest problems of the people living in my constituency have been housing problems. Of the housing existing there now, 40 per cent. was built before the First World War, and 30 per cent. of it was built in the nineteenth century. Many of those houses are very hard—some   impossible—to bring up to present-day standards of amenity. That means that there is continuous need for modernisation and renewal. But in an almost totally built-up area, as so many of our constituencies are, new land for building scarcely exists at all, and therefore the only way we can renew, modernise and rebuild is by tearing down what is there already. In practice, this means almost always tearing down people's existing homes, and in this way a tragic conflict arises. On the one hand we have homes lived in by people who very often have struggled all their lives to acquire them. If they are working people, they may be ill-able to afford them, especially in the state of the market at the moment. For many people, it may only be because these are old, ill-equipped and small that they are on the market at all at a price they can afford. Nevertheless, people who acquire such homes after a lifetime of effort and saving are proud of them. Very often they are their one and only capital asset—and, in present circumstances, their one and only hedge against inflation. They put a great deal of work, care and attention into them, and make considerable improvements. Then along comes the local authority and says it intends to knock them down. How can human beings be expected to react in these circumstances, other than with bewilderment, hostility and very often a determination to struggle against local authority decisions so as to preserve the homes that they have acquired in this way? On the other hand the local authorities, for their part, face an insoluble problem in areas like Leyton. With such an enormous stock of very old housing, the local authority has no alternative but continually to replace old housing with new if its borough is not to become a grey, twilight area gradually running down over the coming generation and sliding eventually into slumdom. This conflict of interest between householders and local authorities is a tragic one which those of us with constituencies in heavily built-up areas are very often caught between, as their Members of Parliament. We have to represent the individual and his interests against arbitrary authority on the part  of both local authorities and the national Government. At the same time we have sympathetically to understand the plans of local authorities and to promote them where we can. Another area in which there is a conflict between local authorities and the national Government, between whom we as Members of Parliament are caught, is that at present involving teachers in London. I am one of those who very much regret the decision of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State not to make an interim announcement of an increase in the London teachers' allowance before the Pay Board reports in June. It seemed to me that it might be possible to make a payment on account which would in no way have prejudiced the Pay Board. I hope the Government will realise that the teachers of London, too, are caught in an extremely difficult situation—to which the housing situation contributes, but which is not entirely explained by it. Teachers who, because of the pressure and the difficulty of living in London, wish to leave London have to apply for jobs elsewhere before the end of May if they are to be in their new posts by next September. This means that all who would be deterred from leaving London by an increase in the London allowance need to know that there is to be such an increase before June, which is when the Pay Board is due to report. However, since the announcement which the teachers hoped for, and which I hoped for, has not occurred, I ask them to bear their souls in patience with the following consideration. In the present state of the discussion it is entirely clear—in view of everything that has been said in the House and outside it—that an increase in the London teaching allowance will be announced in June, and that the increase is likely to be substantial. I hope, therefore, that teachers, as reasonable and rational people—which teachers, above all else, should always try to be—will accept that those are the realities of the situation, and will stay with us in London, where we so desperately need them. I have one final observation about an aspect of London life, indeed built-up area life, which again is exemplified by the situation in my constituency, where I think that a solution to a problem has   been found which is of wide application and should be used elsewhere. It is proposed to build a link road from Hackney to the M11 at Woodford, and this link road will slash through Leyton. The road is being built not for the benefit of the people who live in the constituency but for the benefit of the region, indeed of the country as a whole. But it is accepted by the borough council of Waltham Forest that the road is desirable, so we shall have it. However, it will unavoidably involve a serious housing loss in the borough, a borough where there is already a severe shortage of housing. It will raise the noise level, it will cause pollution. And it will, or would in normal circumstances, create unsightly civil engineering developments. A young architect who lives in the constituency, Mr. Malcolm Lister, RIBA, has produced a most imaginative scheme which could be followed with profit elsewhere. In essence, it is this: to sink the road in a cutting for most of its length and to cover that stretch of road, which is several hundred feet wide and several miles long, with parkland, so that we should have a linear park which not only would supply very much needed open space in an area in which everyone agrees that there is a desperate lack of that, but would also supply a surface on which adventure playgrounds, parks, old people's gardens, bowling greens, tennis courts and community amenities of many different kinds could be provided. This plan has been put on display locally. I hope that something very like it will come into being. In all these problems money is of the essence, of course: it is the cost of solving our problems that limits the solutions we can apply. But the community problems of London are really so severe now that all complacency, if there is any complacency on the part of people who live in London, must be outgrown and put aside. There used to be a time when the most able members of every profession wanted to flock to London, and it was very difficult in this country to get outstanding people—whether they were teachers, lawyers, doctors, engineers, journalists or in any walk of life—to live for very long outside London in numbers sufficient for the requirements of the country's life as a whole. That time has gone. The difficulty now is getting professional people to come to live in  London. This very afternoon we are being lobbied in this House by the teachers because of problems existing largely because teachers cannot be got to live and teach in London. We have seen in the United States how great cities can begin to die at the heart, and how the people, and the life dependent on those people, can go elsewhere, leaving the centres of those cities to decline and decay into economic ghettos. It would be foolish of us to think that it cannot happen here. It is already beginning to happen here. And it will go on happening unless we in this House, and people in local authorities all over London, take active steps to prevent it.
