gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As is customary in a maiden speech, I wish to make a friendly reference to my predecessor, Mr. James Hill. James Hill, who has many friends in Southampton and, I have no doubt, many friends in the House, made his main contribution as a parliamentarian in two   fields—Europe and housing. I have no wish to follow him on the road to Strasbourg, but I share his close interest in housing. The House will recall that James Hill served for a time as secretary of the Conservative back-bench committee on housing and was also member of the Standing Committee on the Housing Finance Bill. Prior to his election in 1970 he was chairman of Southampton's housing committee. Although he and I doubtless would disagree on the nature and causes of our present housing problems I know that we would unite in recognising the seriousness of the problems and the need for urgency in dealing with them. I should also like to pay tribute to another of my predecessors who, happily, is still with us. I refer to my hon. Friend the Member for Southampton, Itchen (Mr. Mitchell). I have been fortunate enough to have him as my mentor, not only in these first few somewhat confusing days as a new Member but also in the three years since I was selected as a candidate for a Southampton division. My hon. Friend and I have the privilege of representing one of the most attractive and prosperous cities in the country. Anybody who has seen the tree-lined avenues of Southampton will testify to its attractiveness. Its prosperity is based on a flourishing light industry but, more particularly, on its rôle as a major international port. Southampton Docks are one of the success stories of public enterprise. Southampton is now the second most important port in the country. We believe that we have the facilities, the skill, the experience and the labour relations to do, at a fraction of the cost, the job which some people suggest will cost millions of pounds of public money at Maplin. I make that point in the comfortable knowledge that in doing so I represent the interests not only of my constituents but also of the taxpayers and the country as a whole. I have said that my immediate predecessor and I share an interest in housing. It may be asked why a city so well favoured as Southampton should have a housing problem. A measure of the gravity of our national housing situation, is that housing even in Southampton has become the single most pressing social  problem. That is not just an academic observation. For the past two or three years in Southampton I have run a free advice centre which deals with over 1,000 cases a year. It is possibly one of the most important voluntary operations of its kind in the country. Increasingly over the last year or two the people who have come to that centre for help and advice have been the homeless and the badly housed. They are young married couples with one, two or possibly three children living in tiny overcrowded houses with in-laws and sleeping and eating in one room with all the intolerable strains that that imposes on family relations. They are pensioners living in privately-rented accommodation, whose absentee landlords cannot easily be traced, who have to place buckets in their front rooms to catch the water coming through the ceilings and who are unable to use the only electric light socket, their only means of heating, because the water running down the walls makes it too dangerous. The housing situation in Southampton has deteriorated rapidly over the past few years. In 1968 new aplicants could be housed within three or six months of application and engaged couples could be promised houses upon marriage. Now we have an active housing list of over 4,000 families. Even those with the most pressing circumstances, the most difficult, in-sanitary, and overcrowded situations, must endure a minimum delay of seven to nine months, and newly married couples literally have no prospects of being housed in the city. How did this desperate situation arise? I trust that a straightforward recital of the facts will not be regarded as too controversial for a maiden speech. At the end of the 1960s it was thought in Southampton that the provision of housing could increasingly be left to the private sector. As a result the council building programme was cut from a peak of 1,400 houses in 1965 to just 278 in 1970. Existing council houses were sold off. Most important and serious for the future of the housebuilding programme in Southampton, building land which had been accumulated by the council was sold to private builders. The expectation that the private sector could handle this responsibility was falsified almost immediately by the mortgage famine and the rapid rise   in house prices. Therefore, not only did those seeking new houses turn back to the public rented sector, but those who were already housed in that sector were that much less likely to move out into the private market. For example, vacations in Southampton fell from 1,100 in 1968 to 700 in 1973. If Southampton's recent housing history is bleak, the future is bleaker. The building programme, which is already hampered by a shortage of building land, will come to an end in 1978 because there will then be no building land at all. By that time, even taking into account the purchase of available private houses to add to the housing stock, the housing list will have grown to 6,000 families. That figure spells real human misery. It also spells an appalling waste of local authority resources. Southampton ratepayers pay hundreds of pounds each week to put families into bed and breakfast accommodation because there is nowhere else for them to go. The ratepayers spend £30 a week per child in care because it is only by breaking up families that accommodation can be provided for them. In addition to direct costs, we must take account of the indirect burden on the social services, the education and health budgets, and the increase that bad housing means in the crime and vandalism figures. What can be done? First, we need land. We need 500 acres of land outside the city to build the houses Southampton needs. We need powers of land acquisition and assembly. Then we need the resources, which can be made available only by Government decision, to build houses for rent and for sale. With respect to the argument advanced by the right hon. Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher), I think that most people recognise that there will be a continuing and substantial demand for rented accommodation. We must also press ahead with the modernisation of council houses and offer help to the owner-occupiers of older properties through the medium of improvement grants and equity mortgages. We must have greater flexibility on cost yardsticks, tendering procedures and possibly building standards. We must also draw into co-operation the housing associations. In other words, we must  use every weapon in our armoury to try to deal with this terrible problem. I am glad that this problem is recognised by the Government in the appropriate passage in the Gracious Speech. Policitians, particularly new Members, are often warned about the limits of their powers to effect any real improvement in the lives of ordinary people. As a general proposition I accept that as true, but here is one political problem which could be solved by the exercise of political will. Here is one way in which we could effect a dramatic improvement, a transformation, in the lives of the homeless and the badly housed. The problem is simple and so is the solution. We simply need to build more houses. I hope and urge that, for the sake of those on housing lists in Southampton and elsewhere, we will do just that.
