gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a great honour to address the House on this occasion. I have already come to recognise it as a place of many contrasts, not the least being that it seems to be one of the few institutions in Britain in which hon. Members, far from courting, tend to drift away from maidens. However, I intend to be brief and to make only one or two substantive points. First, however, I wish to congratulate the hon. Member for Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire (Mr. Reid) on a forceful speech. I shall congratulate him even more if he shows his old allegiance of 1973 to the Labour Benches and brings his new-found friends with us into the Lobby on Monday evening. I should like to comment on the contribution by the hon. Member for Chelmsford (Mr. St. John-Stevas). I gratefully acknowledge his support for the student grants lobby and students in the   difficulties that they face and of which I am all too well aware, recently being a college lecturer. But I would debate with him forcibly his defence of privilege and private education. But probably that ought to be dealt with by the major artillery of my right hon. Friends rather than the pop-gun contribution of a maiden speech. I have the honour to be the first Member to be returned for the constituency of Enfield, North, but I pay tribute to the man who for more than 14 years zealously and tenaciously pursued the best interests of the people of Enfield, East, which now forms two-thirds of the new constituency. Mr. Mackie is a man of the greatest charm and integrity. It is no surprise to me to discover that he is as well liked and well respected in the House as he is among the people of Enfield. For six years, between 1964 and 1970, he served the Labour Government as a Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture. I am sure that the whole House joins me in wishing him well in his retirement from national politics and in his continued pursuit of the many interests that lie close to his heart, particularly, of course, farming. I cannot aspire to earning a similar reputation in that respect although I seek to emulate his notable record of four consecutive election victories. Enfield, North is an exciting and challenging constituency to represent. Its diversity is such that it bids fair to be a microcosm of the country—rolling agricultural land within the new boundary ensures that Enfield is partly custodian of the green belt. In the eastern part of the constituency, famous industries, such as the Royal Small Arms factory and Thorn Electrical Industries, make essential contributions to our national well being. Historic Enfield, with its well-known association with Elizabeth's hunting exploits in Enfield Chase—not always successful, if we believe the Earl of Leicester—is now a borough of the great metropolis, sharing many of the capital city's advantages, as well as some of its most pressing problems. One such problem, on which I wish to concentrate in this maiden speech, is of crisis proportion and is facing Greater London hospitals. They are  problems that are reflected widely in the country, but they manifest themselves particularly acutely in the hospitals of Enfield. My constituents will have welcomed, as I do, the Government's intention to improve and expand the health service. That intention must be translated into speedy reality, for the direct consequences of the previous administration's unfair wages policy, which cut most harshly into the public sector, is a shortage of all kinds of staff in hospitals. The inadequacy of pay scales in the health service is having two deleterious effects. The first point concerns the closure Jf hospital departments and wards. Several ward closures have recently been announced in the hospitals of Enfield and there is a fear that there is insufficient staff to utilise the new buildings due to be available later in the year. Secondly, and this is the main burden of my contribution today, the increasing dependence of those services which stay open on part-time staff supplied by agencies produces notable disadvantages to the service. That applies not only to nurses and doctors but to the whole range of para-medical staff and, more recently, to hospital porters and stokers, too. Even staff from the agencies with the highest standards—and there are some that hospitals approach only as a last resort—bring attendant disadvantages when compared with full-time staff. Agencies are being used frequently by full-time staff in other hospitals as a means of earning overtime, often the only way in which people can meet the living costs in London. But staff working excessive hours cannot give those highest standards of care to which my constituents are entitled. The employment of agency staff creates resentment among full-time staff, who are paid less for doing the same tasks as the part-timer. Because of their greater commitment to the hospital as established staff, they are often obliged to take more than their fair share of the unpopular duties. The National Health Service is being held to ransom by the agencies, for it is obliged to pay vastly inflated rates. Some agencies charge almost double the standard rates paid to full-time staff. Thirdly, agency staff are often less efficient because of their unfamiliarity   with the routine in hospitals, and a lack of continuity of staff creates serious difficulties in health care. In the face of these problems my constituents have not elected me to sit silent upon the peak of the back benches while the concept of the lump—so resented in the building industry and whose abuses in that connection are soon to be abolished by Her Majesty's Government—makes its appearance increasingly and in dramatic fashion in the health services, to their obvious detriment. My constituents will want swift action from a Government whose election owes most to its correct identification of Socialist principles in the distribution of national resources—to save the health service from the brink of collapse, a state to which the previous administration's policies have substantially contributed. I thank the House for its indulgence in tolerating the language of controversy in this my maiden speech. Time, however, is short. Even the most optimistic of my right hon. and hon. Friends have failed to give me categorical assurances that this Parliament will last a full five years. My constituents rightly demand action now. I have no intention of returning to them for their renewed support without having pressed vigorously for early action in this critical area, for improved staffing and improved payment to staff in our hospitals, and the abolition of yet another aspect of private infiltration into the health service.
