gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am obliged for the opportunity to make my maiden speech. I understand that it is in order for one maiden to compliment and congratulate another, and I am happy to do so. The speech of the hon. Member for Stamford and Spalding (Mr. Davies) was able and eloquent, but I am sure that he will not be surprised to hear that I disagree with some of what he said towards the end, particularly his remarks about the relationship of unemployment to the cost of labour. It reminded me of a theory that I have heard from Conservative Members from time to time. It can be distilled as the thought that the poor are not working because they are paid too much, and the rich are not working because they are paid too little. I have always thought that that was a curious theory. In fact, it struck me as more of an excuse than a theory. I learned a great deal about the constituency of Stamford and Spalding and I hope that, by the end of my speech, the hon. Gentleman will have learnt something about the problems in my constituency. I shall begin by paying tribute to my predecessor, Donald Stewart, who represented the Western Isles for 17 years. In that time, he grew to be well loved by his constituents and I think that I am right in saying that he was well liked and greatly respected in the House. Donald was an honest, dignified and faithful servant of the Western Isles and it is a great honour to succeed him. Mine is a unique constituency, for many reasons. Not least is the fact that the first language of the majority of my constituents is not English, but Gaelic, which the English curiously pronounce as ""Gaylic"". It also happens to be the oldest living language in Scotland. My constituents hope that this Parliament will help to give Gaelic the recognition and the status that it deserves. With the permission of the House, I would like to express that same hope of my constituents in their own language Tha mi'n dochas anns an bliadhnaichean a tha tighinn gum bi a' Pharlamaid seo na caraid don Ghaidhlig agus gum cuidich i ann a bhith ga neartachadh agus go gleidheadh. I thank the House for its indulgence. Today we are discussing the Finance Bill. There are many aspects under its umbrella that we could discuss. Most obvious, perhaps, are the effects of public expenditure cuts in the Islands over the past few years, and the way that the local authority has been forced to cut services because of the lack of money from central Government, as well as the effect on social services, the maintenance of roads, as so on. I would like to talk about three examples of taxation policy — taken in its most general sense — affecting my constituents which they hold, and I agree with them, to be oppressive and iniquitous in their operation. I hope that, by the end of my speech, hon. Members, particularly Government Members, will have some understanding of why I used those adjectives. The first taxation policy I want to talk about concerns crofters. Crofting, along with fishing and the manufacture of Harris tweed, form the traditional economic backbone of the Outer Hebrides. The success of crofting is that it keeps people on the land. It does not provide a high cash income but it does allow people to supply food, fuel and shelter for themselves. Perhaps more than that, it allows the dignity of labour, without which communities can become disheartened and demoralised, something sadly seen throughout the country today. Crofting encourages and helps people to stay on the land. Indeed, parts of my constituency are among the most heavily populated rural areas in Europe. Crofters complain of two taxes. First is the poll tax. It is not directly germane to the Bill, so I will just say about it that it threatens a severe blow to the crofting communities. When the Bill to introduce the poll tax in England and Wales is defeated in the House with the help of the more rational and independent minded Government Members, I hope that its defeat will be quickly followed by the abolition of the poll tax legislation for Scotland. A subject that I particularly want to raise in relation to crofting is not a tax as such but rather a tax allowance. I refer to the inequity of the present system of tax allowances for private forestry. At present, tax incentives and grants to private forestry cost the Exchequer some £10 million a year. It is certainly not the crofters who benefit from this massive expenditure of public finance. The public subsidy to encourage the planting of trees is available only to higher rate taxpayers. There are precious few crofters among them. What is the economic gain to the nation from this vast public subsidy? Precious little, if we are to believe the report of the National Audit Office presented to the House on 4 December last year. There is no economic gain, but there is a great deal of environmental loss. Crofters are discriminated against in their efforts to plant and grow trees — efforts that are much more   environmentally sensitive and much more agriculturally useful. As the law stands at present, any trees planted by a crofter on his own croft belong not to him or to her, but the landlord. This difference in treatment between rich tax dodgers—people resident in the south of England—and ordinary crofters living on the land, is clearly unfair and unjust, and demands correction. Ultimately, the solution must involve changes in land ownership in the Highlands and Islands, but in the meantime it would be good to have a change in the law to give crofters ownership of the trees they plant on their own land and a change in the present system of tax allowances away from subsidising tax-dodgers towards helping crofters and other hill farmers. I am delighted to find that I have the support of a newly appointed Member of the Government Front Bench, the hon. Member for Stirling (Mr. Forsyth), who is now the Under-Secretary of State for Scotland. He said in this place last January about the present system of tax allowances: The effect is to exclude local people from the business of planting trees and to bring in a new generation and class of absentee landlords, consisting of pop stars, snooker players and others who are anxious to convert high marginal tax income into a tax-free capital gain.""—[Official Report, 26 January 1987; Vol. 109, c. 157.] I hope that the hon. Member will stick to his guns in his new responsibility as Under-Secretary, but I see that the responsibilities for agriculture and forestry have been curiously divided. The Under-Secretary has been denied responsibility for forestry, which would naturally complement his responsibility for agriculture, and that seems to bode ill. I want to look next at an unfair and iniquitous levy about to be imposed upon my constituents who work in the fishing and fish processing industries. In February of this year, the then Secretary for Transport announced his intention to lay an order before Parliament to increase light dues by almost 14 per cent. and to extend its application to fishing vessels over a certain minimum size. People have complained for years about the heavy burden that light dues impose on merchant ships. No other European country save Greece and Ireland imposes a similar burden. The Government's answer to the problem is to place the burden on the shoulders of fishermen. The Government's order is economically foolish and unjust. It is economically foolish because it places our merchant ships and fishing vessels at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors. It is unjust because those light dues are not to be levied upon pleasure craft, yachts or the Royal Navy, which equally use those services. The Leader of the Opposition has prayed against the order and I hope that we shall have a chance to debate it at a later date. Yet another unjust and intolerable levy upon hard work and enterprise in my constituency, about to be imposed by the Crown Estates Commission, will affect fish farmers in the Highlands and Islands. Crofting and fishing are traditional staples in my constituency. Fish farming is a highly promising sunrise industry. It has produced over 1,000 primary jobs in the Islands and the anticipated production next year will be worth some £100 million. Shellfish farming has also been developed, with similar prospects. This resource, valuable both in terms of employment and cash income, needs to be developed and managed so that people living and working in the Highlands and Islands benefit from it. It is an outrage that total control over fish and shellfish farming should reside with the Crown Estates Commission—a secretive, unelected quango of financiers and estate owners who have no local contacts, no local knowledge and who are not accountable to the communities they affect. It is even more outrageous that the Commission should abuse that power to impose a levy upon the local people who built up the industry through their hard work, initiative and enterprise. The Commission plays, and has played, no constructive role in the development of the industry. It adds and contributes nothing. It produces nothing. It is simply a parasite upon the sweat and toil of my constituents and the constituents of other Members in the Highlands and Islands. My constituents demand an end to the situation. We want the right to control our own natural resources. I hope again that we will have an opportunity to debate this at a later stage. I have described three taxes or levies that the Government have done nothing to correct and that the Finance Bill does nothing to correct which are unjust, unfair, and, most strikingly, place a severe burden upon the hard-working and enterprising people of my constituency. I think that these three examples help to give the lie to the Government's claim that they are in business to help ordinary, enterprising, working people. They expose that claim as the humbug that it largely is. My constituents want only to make a decent, honest living. They want to work hard and make a go of it. The Government oppose these aspirations. The Opposition support them. I plead for a change of mind on the Government's part, but I know in reality that that is futile. My right hon. and hon. Friends and I can only hope for a change of Government.
