gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is an extremely important Bill. I regard it as the third of a series of legislative    proposals which will give security and much more protection at a time when people need security and protection most. We have had the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Bill and the National Insurance Bill. Now we have this Bill which is a positive Measure—the National Health Services Bill. Those three will coordinate activities which have been voluntary in origin, but patchy in development. The Debate of the last two days has shown that in all areas there has been a patchy development of the services which are essential to poor people. These Measures, however, will bring the largest amount of security to all. As a past member of a local authority, I am disturbed at the prejudice that is being expressed at the present moment. Many people are saying that they are going to be deprived of the services of the doctor they have known. I am glad that the Parliamentary Secretary has assured us that that certainly is not contemplated under the Bill. In the Bill, as far as I have been able to see, there is a safeguard against that. Older people feel about this very keenly. Apart from the loss of the doctor to whom they have been accustomed, some of them feel the change of service in hospitals. The amazing thing about it is that people are not so concerned about the fact that the voluntary hospitals are now to become a State service for the nation, as about the suggestion that they are not going to be able to get the service in the hospital which they have had previously. It seems to me amazing that people should express prejudice of that kind. The Debate has shown that doctors are still to be the people who will serve and that nurses will still be trained for nursing, either in hospitals or in homes wherever they are needed. There is nothing in the Bill to interfere with the training either of the doctor or the nurse. There is nothing to prevent the most extensive and particular training that can be given and which has been given in the past. What happens under this Bill is an extension of the opportunities for research and closer working over the whole nation, so that services which hitherto have been extremely good in parts, can now be available for the whole. Local authority experience has provided an excellent service in maternity and child welfare work. I recall the early   days when the local authorities had power to being into being maternity and child welfare services after the 1918 Act. They had the power to initiate maternity homes, to encourage midwives, and to make the service comprehensive. When those services first came into being there was, very unfortunately, an enormous amount of prejudice. It was said at that time that the public authority must not be allowed to do work which, in the past, the private practitioner had in his own hands. We know perfectly well that the result since those days has been an enormous improvement in the health of the people of the country. Mothers and children have greatly benefited from the service given by progressive authorities. We entirely agree with the right hon. and learned Member for North Croydon (Mr. Willink) in his remarks about progressive authorities, whatever their opinions may be. The progressive authorities took the opportunities given to them and brought into being a comprehensive service in their own neighbourhoods, which has been most beneficial to the whole people. Again, we have the general hospital services organised through the county council. Would anyone say that the standard of the hospital services under the county councils was any lower than the standard of service in voluntary hospitals? We all know of services in local authority hospitals which have been of the highest standard and which have been intensely appreciated by all who had the opportunity, or necessity, of taking advantage of them. We appreciate, of course, the difficulties in the rural areas where it is not always possible, because of the scattered population, to put within reach of the ordinary person the services of the hospital, the nurse and the clinic. We therefore hope that under an organisation of this kind, the rural areas will be considered. I particularly welcome the proposed health centres visualised in the Bill. Their main value will be the prevention of the development of disease by earlier diagnosis and treatment. It is only in health centres of this kind, where it is possible for all people to go, that we can follow up the work done by the maternity and child welfare organisations, with the advantage of the knowledge that has been gained. If we can persuade the people fully to use the health centres, we shall have information which has never been avail-   able before and we can use it in such a way as to bring increased benefit to the persons concerned as they are growing up. I have a very strong belief in the development of preventive organisation. One of the most useful books ever written was an outline of preventive medicine by Sir George Newman, published immediately after the last war. I am sure that it induced a large number of workers under local authorities to get on with the job which was there outlined and to adopt the various suggestions which were there made, with very real benefit. When we come to consider the work to be done by the local authorities, if all imaginative local authorities establish health centres, we might very well see carried out the suggestion of making available all the documents that can be gathered together at the centre, dealing with the health, growth and development of each person. If this were done, in conjunction with nutritional considerations, the examination of which has been going on for some time, all these activities affecting the welfare of the people could be coordinated in the health centre. Is it a very big hope that this will prove to be a really constructive health Measure, which will use preventive organisation and preventive medicine in promoting the better health of the nation, and combine it with the study of such questions as housing, education and sanitation? The growth of maternity homes, antenatal and post-natal clinics, led to an enormous drop in infant mortality and in maternal mortality, and that was the result of the work undertaken in these local centres. There was a very strong prejudice against these institutions in the early days, and it was quite a long time before it was broken down. It was a long time before people stopped saying, ""We do not want to go to these places and mix with all sorts of people."" When the war came, and it was a question of saving the health of the nation, the antenatal and post-natal clinics were used to a greater extent to the great credit and benefit of the country. The maternity service was never better than it was during war time, and it was very much extended, not only in regard to local authorities, but in other directions as well, to the benefit of the nation. It is suggested that these voluntary organisations, which have rendered yeoman service in recent years, will not be fitted successfully into the new  scheme. I was grateful to hear the Parliamentary Secretary say that representatives of the voluntary hospitals will have a part in the constitution of hospital management committees or whatever term is used for those who will be responsible for the organisation. There certainly ought to be on such bodies some representatives of the voluntary hospitals. The Minister has not disregarded the value of voluntary hospitals at all. He has everywhere recognised that here is a valuable service, conducted in the interests of the people. It has been the conception of service to the nation which has altered, and I wonder sometimes, when we are talking about the glory that comes to a man who has left his kindred and gone into the Forces of the Crown, whether we have any measure at all of the praise that ought to be given to the people who have conducted these services in the past. We are seeing today the creation of a new national health service. There is no question of compulsion about it; it is only a question of the encouragement and coordination of various different activities which hitherto have grown up piecemeal. Yet, when we think of the wonderful service which has been given to the nation in the past by these men and women, who have spent long hours in close research in the service of the people, using their natural gifts and the opportunities afforded to them to bring those gifts to the service of the nation, we recall that, when these people brought their new ideas into being, those ideas were as hotly contested as this new national health service is being contested today. Surely, the changing circumstances demand that the wider vision which recognises the greatest good for the greatest number, shall be the determining factor, and that we shall recognise and welcome the opportunity of using all that is available for the service of the whole country. Reference has been made to the rights of patients. There are some of us who realise that there has been a strong determination that the hospitals should be made ready for the doctors. I was glad to hear the Minister say that the patient was the person who mattered, and, in future, we hope that the patient will be the person who will have all the rights in the hospital. When we think of the position facing us we must appreciate very much indeed that the difference of outlook between this side of the House   and the other, is bound to cause a clash occasionally. Opinions are obviously different. I cannot accept the idea of this Bill as a Juggernaut car which is to crush every atom of initiative and every independent thought in the minds of doctors and those who run our hospitals. It seems to me that the present position is an opportunity to encourage our young people to take part in, and derive great benefit from, a national health service. Such a service will give doctors and nurses the opportunity of satisfying their ideals. It will give them chances for research work which will result in achievements even greater than the wonderful progress made in the past. More glorious service to humanity will be the result of this coordination of the activities of our health services and hospitals and those who are trained in them will gain a very much wider understanding of service to the country, so that there will no longer be any question of fear of the future for many people but on the contrary a certainty of the benefits that the future is going to bring.
