gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with some trepidation that I rise to make my maiden speech following two such illustrious right hon. Gentlemen. Hon. Members will at once connect the name of Esher with that of Sir William Robson Brown, the former hon. Member for the constituency. He had friends on both sides of the House and served his full span of 20 years as a Member. He had his full share, as many other hon. Members here today have had, of personal success and personal misfortune. He liked to call himself a man of the people, and he was, indeed, a good constituency man. He looked after the interests of his constituents with great care. He was also a man of the people because he rose directly from the shop floor in the steel industry to the boardroom. Many people consider that enough for one lifetime and something of which one can be proud. Apart from that, however, he had a second career in this House in which much of his work was done behind the scenes. He was assiduous in fostering good industrial relations, for which he worked long before it became fashionable. He worked and campaigned successfully   for the rights of old-age pensioners and was also a great champion of the young. I am sure that his closest friends will testify to the fact that he was a generous and warm-hearted man who had a soft spot that was not hard to reach. He was a man with the common touch. He made his own way in the world and was proud of it and his type is becoming increasingly rare, so much more the pity. Much has changed in my constituency of Esher since the father of my right hon. Friend the Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) represented it. Now we have every environmental problem of the age. Our rivers, which were once a source of pleasure, are now a menace when in full flood and our common lands, once a source of recreation, are now threatened by link roads and motorways. Our schools, of which we were once proud, are now inadequate following the population explosion. Even our peace of mind is disturbed by the latest menace—the insidious menace of aircraft noise. We have many problems of this sort, but we are proud to live in Esher and we would like to keep it as it is. The problems of the environment are among the greatest problems that we shall have to face in the coming years. There are great clashes ahead—we have seen some already in connection with the third London airport and the London ring roads—between economic requirements and ordinary human needs. This is like the meeting of the immovable object and the irresistible force. In this conundrum which we shall increasingly have to attempt to solve is enshrined the secret of the human race. Like my predecessor, this is my second career. My first career was in the Services, in which I served 22 years in war, in peace and in cold war, in many different places, and in many different capacities. Occasionally I hope to speak for that body of men who have no constituency where they live. Their constituency is the sands of the Gulf or the jungles of Malaysia, or even the streets of Belfast. But all hon. Members will agree that their true constituency is in the hearts and minds of those particular hon. Members who have their interests at heart. The main industry in my constituency is the aircraft industry—the British Aircraft Corporation at Weybridge, which employs 7,000 people. I believe I am technically correct in regretting that the Gracious Speech makes no mention of the aircraft industry. In my constituency we are proud to have the foremost and finest airframe manufacturers in the world located in our midst. In a way, it is a bit of a love-hate complex, but once the aircraft are up in the air we wish they would go away. Looking at the present problems of the aircraft industry, we are in one of the periodic troughs which it reaches. Most of the existing projects are off the production line and the new projects have not yet started to come on to it. At the same time, our exports of aero-space materials have been rising in recent years, because of the initiatives 10–15 years ago. However, because of the lack of initiative in the past five years, plus many sad cancellations, no seed corn has been sown and there are no crops coming up in the aircraft industry. Any farmer knows that once the winter is past it is too late to put down any winter wheat and, if the spring is past, it is too late to put down spring seeds. That is the position in the aircraft industry today. There are no crops coming up. The men who are waiting to harvest these crops are being laid off because there is no work for them to do, because the land is barren. There is of course the Concorde. This is rather slow in germination. It is certainly not a money spinner, but it is essential if we are to keep in the aero-space race. There is also the BAC 3–11 and its associated Rolls-Royce aircraft engine, about which decisions are now long overdue. The fate of the aircraft industry, both on the airframe side and on the engine side, hangs on these decisions. I hope that they will not be long delayed. Without wishing to be controversial, when we resume our trade with South Africa dare anyone say that the sale of the Buccaneer, Nimrod and Harriers will not be a significant factor in getting the aircraft industry back on its feet again? The last five years have indeed been a sad story. There have been cancellations. The design teams have disintegrated. Technical skills have been dissipated. Many people have gone to America through the brain drain. I believe that the aim of any Government towards the aircraft industry should be the export of aircraft and not the export of men. Finally, another problem in my constituency directly arising from the aircraft industry is the problem of aircraft noise. Many petitions have been signed. Much evidence has come forward from schools, from nursing homes, from the parents of young children, and from our own ears and eyes. Official statistics say that the noise is lessening, but we who live there know that it is getting worse, so there must be something wrong somewhere. We all know that aircraft must fly. We want our aircraft industry to prosper, but not to the absolute detriment of human condiitions. The book, ""The Silent Spring"", written by Miss Rachel Carson several years ago, put forward the theory that the bird population was doomed because of the increasing use of pesticides. Now we cannot even hear the birds, let alone killing them off. We cannot wait until the next generation of aircraft comes along so that we can make their engines more silent. A substantial and immediate alleviation is required. We hear much about collisions in the air and the dangers thereof. There can be collisions on the ground between people and between those who fail to realise that they are only human.
