gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I address the House at a time when everyone is especially aware of the scourge of terrorism which is afflicting our beleagured Province. The foul murder of my friend and colleague Edgar Graham yesterday clearly illustrates that fact. Several hon. Members have spoken about Edgar Graham. I support fully what has been said and offer condolences and sympathy to his family. The security aspect in my constituency has had a traumatic effect on my constituents. We have had our share of the troubles which have beset the Province in the past 14 years. As a result of the bombings, murders and numerous arson attempts my constituency has become the most deprived area in Northern Ireland. I have listened to the Secretary of State referring to an acceptable level of violence— [Interruption.] —I was referring to the context in which the right hon. Gentleman made the remark. I believe that Ulster is being asked to accept an acceptable level of violence as part of our daily existence. Would it be acceptable for the constituents of hon. Members to be brutally murdered while attending their religious Sunday service or blown to pieces while having a quiet drink with their friends or for young children to see their mother widowed by the bomb attached to their father's car? The house has recently discussed the effect of video nasties on our population. Although I agree that that is a worthwhile exercise in the protection of our young people, I respectfully say that Ulster has real life situations which make some of the contents of the video tapes seem tame by comparison. The right hon. Member for Mansfield (Mr. Concannon), who was the Labour Government's Northern Ireland Minister, was well respected for his dedication to the job. When we last debated this matter, he stressed that the achievement of peace in Northern Ireland involved not only the people of the province but those of Great Britain and the Irish Republic, but to be realistic in that belief necessitates full co-operation in order to defeat the efforts of those who are opposed to a peaceful solution of the problem. The Dublin Government are not subscribing all that they should in order to destroy the terrorist cells that undoubtedly exist in the 26 counties. In the 1956 to 1962 IRA campaign, the Dublin Government were very quick to act to intern all those suspected of terrorist activities and that, in conjunction with the general co-operation of the forces of law and order on both sides of the border, effectively isolated the majority of the population in Northern Ireland from the hideous acts of violence which were being planned for them. There is evidence—and I noticed it in the newspaper the other day — that the Garda in the Republic are now becoming concerned. However, I would point out that the fiasco of police officers losing their uniforms to Ireland's most wanted  terrorist gives scant confidence about their ability adequately to police their country, particularly in the border area. One of the issues that looms large over Northern Ireland is the commitment of Opposition parties to a united Ireland on the basis of consent. Time and again it has been shown at the ballot box that such consent will not be forthcoming. Such a policy feeds Loyalist fears and encourages those who would seek to hasten the objective by the bomb and the bullet. I pay tribute to the forces of law and order in the province. I have the greatest respect and admiration for our army, which performs an extremely difficult task in an extremely difficult situation. The RUC has now been restructured and, we hope, rejuvenated, and is trusted by everyone to do its job impartially. However, as the hon. Member for Antrim, North (Rev. Ian Paisley) said, many of us in Northern Ireland are not happy about the Chief Constable and the role that he has played. There is a lot of dissension in the force's rank and file, as I think the hon. Gentleman pointed out. I am sure from what my constituents say that that dissension exists, and something should be done about it. I utterly condemn the recent criticism of our Ulster Defence Regiment, and wholeheartedly support its role in the Province. I see the recent irresponsible statements from pro-Republican elements as the beginning of a campaign to destroy a legitimate and deeply respected local defence force. No one can condone the actions of misguided people in any organisation, but that does not, by any stretch of the imagination, allow for a general condemnation of the total force. I hope that the House will recognise those accusations for what they are and whence they come. The thoughts of many of the members of the UDR were summed up recently. An officer was reported in one of our local newspapers as saying: The Ulster contribution in almost every war that Great Britain has fought has been massive. He went on to say that if he and his colleagues could address the Prime Minister, they would tell her: We have given our dead for safekeeping—they are not sleeping and never will they until you put right the many injustices and show the resolution we know you possess and you must also take decisive action to end the agonies of this battered Province. In making my first speech to the House I find myself, through the support of my constituents, in a new and completely different political sphere—a sphere in which I take great pride. I trust that during my time in the House I will do all that I can to uphold the dignity of this revered institution and to represent all the people of Belfast, North to the best of my ability. I am reading a very interesting book by the hon. Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell). It is giving me much advice on certain matters, and much pleasure, but one of the most enlightening things that I have read in it is that most Members of Parliament are just ordinary human beings like myself. That makes me feel much better. I am sure that I will eventually be able to adjust to my new life in the House of Commons. In view of the complexity of the many and varied problems that face the Province of Ulster, I am concerned about the fact that the Government have seemed to double up on some of the portfolios for which Ministers are responsible. I have the greatest admiration and respect for our new Ministers, who have shown a dedicated interest in their various Departments, and for the tremenclous   energy that they devote to their seemingly endless workload. Their enthusiasm should be acknowledged. However, concentrated effort applied continually can impair the most efficient people to the detriment of the cause that they espouse. I wish to pay a sincere compliment to my predecessor, John McQuade—Johnny McQuade, as he is known in north Belfast. He and I were both born and reared in north Belfast and we share the same concern for its problems. He confided to me a long time ago his ambition to be a Member of the Mother of Parliaments. I was his opponent in the election that brought him here, but I did not begrudge him that honour, and I wish him every health and happiness in his retirement from mainstream politics.
