gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In the unhappy circumstances in which the vacancy in the Openshaw constituency arose, I wonder whether I might start today by paying a tribute to the late Member for the constituency, Bill Williams, who was respected and beloved on both sides of the House. I think that to him we can   truly apply the words spoken by Pericles, 2,000 years ago, in his funeral oration for the Greeks who were killed in the Peloponnesian war. He said: For the whole earth is the sepulchre of famous men; and their story is not graven only of stone above their native earth—but lives on far away, without visible symbol, woven into the stuff of other men's lives. It is fitting, and in keeping with the deep and abiding interest which the late Bill Williams had for those whom he represented, that today, in this my maiden speech, I should seek to direct the attention of the House to at least some of the health problems which affect the lives of the people of Openshaw constituency and the City of Manchester, of which they form such an important part. I should, perhaps, explain that the Openshaw constituency includes the delightful semi-rural Urban Dirstrict Council of Failsworth and goes on to cover the three wards Newton Heath, Bradford, and Openshaw which together form possibly one of the most heavily industrialised areas of Manchester. I think that one can accept what one distinguished correspondent of The Times said about the people of Openshaw during the recent by-election. He described them as ""worthy and level-headed."" I do not know whether that was before he knew the result or after, but I would endorse it, in any event. They are a particularly industrious people. The vogue in recent times has been for hon. Members to seek to determine which section of the community produces the nation's wealth. I would seek to advance the claims of the workers of Openshaw and the north of England. But as residents of a constituency and of a city where industry and atmospheric pollution abound, they seem obliged to suffer some health hazards to which I should like to draw attention. At this festive season of the year, with the advent of Christmas and its religious and joyous significance, it is, perhaps, appropriate that I should focus attention on infant mortality and address myself to explaining the shocking, indeed squalid, housing conditions in which so many people in my constituency are obliged to live. Of 19,000 houses owned by landlords, the local authority has determined that 7,400 have deteriorated to the state where the only  solution is their complete demolition. That is the state of housing conditions in an area where infant mortality is a serious problem. My hon. Friend the Member for St. Pancras, North (Mr. K. Robinson) referred to the question of infant mortality and the recent perinatal report. The right hon. Gentleman took pleasure in the fact that there had been a reduction in infant mortality in recent years, but I would refer him to an article in the British Medical Journal of Saturday, 7th December, because the pleasure which the right hon. Gentleman expressed—and which to some extent I share—is not entirely reflected in the contribution to this eminent medical journal. The article is headed ""Too Many Infant Deaths"". In the context in which the right hon. Gentleman spoke, it appears almost as an addendum. It says: For some years satisfaction at the falling perinatal mortality rate has tended to obscure the fact that in Britain the rate is reported to be higher than in many countries with comparable living standards. In one list of 18 countries only five had worst rates than England and Wales and only Italy, Portugal and Japan showed rates worse than Scotland's. That is a situation which causes anxiety to many of my hon. Friends. But the situation is slightly more ominous than that, because whereas these comments were written against the background of an infant mortality rate for England and Wales of 20–7 per 1,000 births, the infant mortality rate in Manchester in 1962 was30–43 per 1,000 births. It was 0·59 higher than in 1961. I am mindful of the detailed study and the attention that is being given to this problem by the city's medical officer of health and the medical authorities generally, but I must draw the attention of the House to the seriousness of this problem. The Chief Medical Officer of Health for Manchester carried out a detailed study from which it has emerged that there seems to be no one single discernible cause for this unfortunate position. My hope is that the right hon. Gentleman will give consideration to the need for improve educational facilities for the expectant mother, because it seems that here is a reluctance among   expectant mothers to start prenatal care early enough. I now turn to the problem of cancer in Manchester. The statistics for 1962 show that 2·42 per 1,000 of the population died of cancer in one form or another, compared with a rate of 1·68 per 1,000 for the whole country. Naturally, as a Mancunian, I therefore ask, ""Why?"" When we hear of so much public money being spent in many directions we question why the existing situation obtains at the Christie Cancer Hospital in Manchester. Many hon. Members will be aware of the high reputation that that hospital enjoys. It was no less than staggering for me to learn that of the funds available for research into cancer at this hospital, only 10 per cent. came from Government sources. The rest came entirely from private sources. I want, next, to refer to a health hazard from which I and all other city dwellers suffer. It is a peculiar complaint—almost a city sound. It is discernible when one listens to people talk who are obliged to live in cities. I do not want hon. Members to confuse this city sound with any other sound, such as the ""Liverpool sound""—that delightful cacophony of noise made by our current entertainment idols. The sound to which I am referring is easily discernible, in the rather heavy nasal catarrhal intonations of the human voice, which seems to emanate from everybody living in a city. I hope that this problem of sinus, catarrh and nasal trouble will be tackled. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will consider whether further research should be carried out into the problem. I want to quote from a speech made in this House by the late Member for Ebbw Vale, Aneurin Bevan, on 9th February, 1948. ""Nye""Beyan—one of the most illustrious Ministers of Health that his country has ever had—in welcoming the coming into force of the National Health Service, referred to it as something which offers comprehensive medical care and treatment and lays for the first time a sound foundation for the health of the people…""—[Official Report, 9th February, 1948; Vol. 447, c. 35.]  People viewed the introduction of the National Health Service in different ways. I viewed it as a declaration of war on disease and the conditions which give rise to disease—a war where the only sacrifice asked of us was the acknowledgment that we are our brothers' keepers, and that we should have a willingness to accept the financial obligations involved. The foundations having been laid in 1948, I ask the right hon. Gentleman to have done with parsimony and financial stringency and the like, so that the great British medical profession to which we all owe so much can establish in these islands a health service which is not only the envy of the world, but which will develop and expand to meet the changing health needs of our people.
