gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
First, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I thank you for calling me to participate in this debate. It is an honour to address the House. I congratulate those who have made their maiden speeches today. My constituency is largely made up by the part of east Sussex that was covered by the former parliamentary division of Rye and Bexhill. Following the boundary changes, Rye has joined Hastings. There have been various alterations to the western side of the constituency, the most important of which has been the inclusion of Pevensey. It is now possible to trace within the constituency much of the fateful progress in October 1066 of William Duke of Normandy from his landing until his historic encounter with King Harold. I am happy to report that, even though there was some of the usual cut and thrust during the election campaign, there was no conflict of that magnitude. As the name implies, Bexhill and Battle consists of a well-known seaside resort in which many retired people have made their homes. It also supports a number of small businesses and contains a lively younger generation. There are also the villages, farms and woodlands surrounding Battle, where the mainstay is agriculture. This makes for an invigorating blend of political and economic interests, which I am proud to serve on behalf of all my constituents. For the past 28 years Rye and Bexhill were ably represented by my distinguished predecessor, the right hon. Bryant Godman Irvine, a man whose quiet charm and ready humour won him many friends in this place and secured him a considerable following in the constituency. As a barrister and as a farmer who played a prominent part in the regional NFU, his career in the House spanned a variety of interests. His involvement in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and his contribution to the British Resorts Association were distinguished. However, he will be best remembered as Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means and Deputy Speaker from 1976 to 1982. I am grateful to him for his support and encouragement. Like all his many friends in this place, I look forward to keeping in close touch with him. I am glad to be called in this debate because I know that the youth training scheme will be welcomed by many young people in Bexhill and Battle who need the sort of foundation that the programme offers. I know, too, that it will have great significance in the west midlands. For many years I have been closely involved with a black country engineering group that is based in Oldhill, an area that is represented by the right hon. and learned Member for Warley, West (Mr. Archer), whose careful attention to his constituency I have long respected. From where I have stood, at the sharp end of an old established and traditionally successful engineering business struggling, like all its competitors, during the worldwide recession, one message has come across time and again. It is a message that is just as important to Sussex farmers and growers in coping with their European rivals as it is to manufacturers. The message, which has vital significance to our young people, is that we must all become much more competitive. Throughout the recession, after the shock of falling demand, the squeeze on profit margins and the loss of jobs, the reality that has sunk home is as old as human   nature itself. It is the awareness that we must compete successfully if the nation is to maintain a high standard of living and afford the social services to which we all aspire. Today's world is full of uncertainties. The captive customers of yesterday's empire are now, quite rightly, our competitors. Rapidly changing technology makes for a constantly shifting advantage in the market place among those who are prepared to innovate. Inflation merely disguises and then exacerbates the problems that we face. In spite of these uncertainties, or rather because of them, we must compete so that we can build lasting jobs. If we are to become more competitive, the most valuable resource that we can deploy is that of our human skills. Every advance and breakthrough in our economic history has stemmed from personal initiative, effort and ingenuity. Where better to begin building the foundations of future prosperity than with today's school leavers? It is remarkable that as a country with a long record of industrial achievement it is only now that we are launching a programme that provides all young people of 16 or 17 years who do not stay on at school with a year's bridgehead to adult life in the form of planned work experience, work related training and relevant off-the-job training. As was said in the debate in February, France, Germany and certainly Japan are far in advance of us n the way in which they draw their youngsters into the world of work. It is true that the idea of youth training has received broad support across party political lines from employers, trade unionists, educationists and local authorities. However, the credit for reassessing the youth opportunities programme and ensuring that a practical scheme open to all young people was launched, and far bringing about a fundamental change in attitudes towards training and school leavers, must go to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Employment. It is an immense step forward towards the creation of a more involved and more purposeful work force that can compete in its own best interests in the world market. My own practical observations of the YTS in its early stages suggest that things are going well. The area boards are made up of people of diverse interests who share the common goal of helping youngsters. There is great cooperation and in most areas the targeted number of places looks like being met. Employers have been encouraged by the high practical content of the training. I say that without disrespect to the valuable contribution that is being made by those in further education. Employers have also been impressed by the way in which managing agents approved by the area boards have organised the programmes. Undoubtedly there will be some hiccups in the pilot schemes. That is only to be expected in such a vast administrative undertaking. There will also be some carping. It is not for me in my maiden speech to enter into undue controversy, so I shall make only three comments. First, it is hopelessly shortsighted to regard the £ 25 allowance as a wage to be subjected to the process of collective bargaining. That would undermine the very spirit of the training. It is to be hoped that the youngsters on the scheme will he there to learn about the real world and not to be drawn into the dinosaur fashion of wage claims that wilfully ignore the importance to jobs of competitiveness. Secondly, it is essential that trainees are required to observe the provisions of the health and safety at work legislation in their own interests and in the interests of the employees who work with them. Thirdly, those who lay the charge that the scheme does not guarantee continuing jobs are those, I suspect, who would willingly resort to the old reflationary nostrums of spending money that the country does not have and making promises that cannot be kept. In marked contrast to their unreality, the youth training scheme provide; a sound beginning for all youngsters, on which they will have a better opportunity to build a future for themselves than anything provided hitherto. We must monitor its progress carefully. We must give it the wholehearted support: of the House because it will contribute eventually to greater prosperity in manufacturing and greater competitiveness in agriculture. It is a course that we simply must follow.
