gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise for the first time in this House to discuss in social rather than educational terms one aspect only of the Crowther Report, namely, the proposal to raise the school-leaving age. We have heard from the Minister that voluntary staying on at school is continually increasing. I believe that the figure in 1952 for boys who stayed on voluntarily after 15 was around 22 per cent. and that now it is somewhere near 30 per cent. So there is a steady growth in the number of children staying on voluntarily after that age. All the same, it is a slow growth. On the figures, we cannot afford to wait until all children stay on at school voluntarily. If we do, assuming that the present rate of growth continues indefinitely, the job will take seventy years, and we cannot afford to wait all that time. I suggest, therefore, that there must be an element of compulsion, and we had better face this. The figures now show that about 70 per cent. of the children who reach the age of 15 go from school into the labour market. The figure given in the Crowther Report was a total of 420,000 children doing so, and the figure for the current year is, I believe, higher still, in the region of half a million. With great diffidence, I ask the House to examine the social implications of putting half a million children aged 15 into the labour market. We have only to look around us to see the consequences of this. These teen-agers are necessarily for the most part the children of unskilled workers, as the Crowther Report states, and they are able to command purchasing power on a scale which amounts to a domestic revolution. So the position is that many boys of 15 at once earn incomes which are comparatively high, and which make them to some extent, and to an increasing extent, economically independent of their parents. This is something completely new in our social history. It has not happened before that children of 15 could go into the labour market and could command  incomes that made them economically independent of parental control to a large extent. After all, parental control does not exist in a vacuum; it has an economic basis. It existed in the past largely because children were in a state of economic dependence upon their parents. Now, however, we find that in large numbers of working-class families parental control is becoming almost a nullity. This does not occur by accident but because we are allowing children of 15 to leave school and to go into the labour market in a full employment society. If we want to maintain parental control, if we want to maintain the family unit, I believe it is necessary for social reasons to take children of 15 off the labour market as soon as we can, and keep them at school for a further year. At present, the structure of many working-class families is being swept away by this great tide of teen-age purchasing power. This is not something which happens in the middle class of our society. It happens on the lowest level of the working class, that of the unskilled worker. It is in this kind of household that parental authority is being largely dissolved by the torrent of teen-age purchasing power created by the present school-leaving age. I invite the House to consider whether we can afford, as a matter of social conscience, not simply in terms of education, to permit this state of affairs to continue indefinitely. The Minister has told us, and, of course, we all welcome it, that we should raise the school-leaving age only when we have prepared the ground for it. We must have the teachers, we must have the training colleges to create the teachers, we must have the buildings. Obviously this cannot be done next Monday morning, and it cannot be done by rubbing pound notes together. I believe we have to fix our minds upon the urgent necessity of raising the school-leaving age in order to put an end to the great mass of teen-age purchasing power at 15 which is creating a social problem that has never existed in this country before. We are putting into the hands of children of 15 great masses of purchasing power, but we are not bound to do that. We are no more required to give children   of that age access to purchasing power on a scale that makes them independent of their parents than we are required to give them access to alcohol. We take steps now to ensure that they shall not have access to alcohol. Have we not a similar social duty to ensure that they shall not have free and unquestioned access to purchasing power on a scale which puts them largely outside parental control at an age when they are obviously and manifestly unfitted to have it? They are far too immature, far too juvenile, far too ill-educated to be given command of purchasing power on the scale they have it. Recognising as I do that we cannot raise the school-leaving age for perhaps another decade, we may well have to consider the question of whether we shall put a ceiling upon teen-age purchasing power in order to restore parental control and to remove from these young children—because they are only children —the temptations that now surround them. After all, there is nothing about this which is in the least unalterable, and if we as a community think it is necessary to to so, we can do so. In particular, I should like us to consider whether we should give magistrates in juvenile courts the right to make an order limiting the amount of cash which might be placed in the pockets of 15-year-old children. If the children are to earn more than that, it might well be an argument that the surplus above the ceiling should not be paid in cash but should be in the form of deferred payments. Looking to the next decade, we must also recognise that as voluntary staying on at school increases it will happen more and more that the brighter children, the children from the more responsible homes, will stay on. The children who will continue to leave will, on the whole, be the low-grade children, those from the least responsible homes. That tendency will continue with acceleration during the 'sixties. Therefore, I do not think we should put too much emphasis in defending the raising of the school-leaving age on what might be called the ""Sputnik"" argument—the argument that we have to do this in order to keep up with the Russians, that we have to make the fullest use of our ability, and it is important to raise the school-leaving age in order to do that. If we base the case for raising the school-leaving age on that kind of argument, it will be on a platform which is continually shrinking, because it is bound to happen that the children who will continue to leave school over the next decade will be those who are, on the whole, of minimum ability. It is the most intelligent children who are more likely to remain and the least intelligent children who are likely to leave. If we base the case on such arguments as that, we are standing on a very rickety platform. It is perfectly true—as a new Member, I recognise very well that it has to be said with emphasis—that in order to do the things which the Crowther Report recommends we must not merely spend a very large sum of money but must spend money on a scale that we have never before meditated in education. There is no blinking this fact. It is not much good for us to suppose that this will be wildly popular with public opinion. Education is something of which everybody is in favour in general terms. Education is like temperance, continence, honest toil and the brotherhood of man. It is something in which everybody believes so long as it is stated in general terms. But when one or other of those noble abstractions comes into collision with the habits and pockets of individual folk, the individual starts to make an agonising reappraisal and is apt to begin behaving like a plateful of bubble-and-squeak. We must face that when we urge that more money should be spent on education, and unless we are saying that we are simply talking in the void. We have to recognise that, while we can say these things now and can expect to get support for saying them as long as they are in general terms, when they are translated, as they will be, into taxes and rate demands the reaction of many sections of the public may be very different from what it is now. I hope that the Minister and my fellow Tories will refuse to be intimidated by any such clamour. I believe that it is necesary for us to go forward and to build a springboard for the next leap. I believe that we must do it not on educational grounds only but—primarily, I would almost say—on the urgent social need for rescuing these hundreds of   thousands of children who now go into the labour market at 15 from the corruptions and temptations of easy money.
