gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The Committee hear for the second time this afternoon a plea from a new Member for that friendly and indulgent hearing  which, I know, will be given with the same generosity as on similar occasions in the past. I believe it is a tradition of this House that maiden speeches should not be controversial, which I take to mean that in my humble way I should not throw any stones at the other side of the Committee. But, as far as I know, there is nothing in the traditions of the House which should deter me from throwing a few pebbles at the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Before I come to that, I should like to say one word about the earlier part of the Chancellor's speech of yesterday afternoon, in which he discussed the state of our economy in rather general terms. It is a good moment to sit back and consider the state of our economy as a whole, because, to a large extent, the post-war transition period, the period of recovery, is now over. Our economy is in balance so far as the foreign account is concerned, which is an enormous change from the position two or three years ago. It is also in balance so far as internal affairs are concerned. As the Chancellor said, we have an approximate balance between total supply and demand. I agree very strongly with him in his statement that there is no serious inflation in our system now and that the degree of disinflation we have achieved is certainly greater than at any time since the end of the war. We can form a judgment on our economy, now that it is settled down and not disturbed by any temporary post-war factors. I am certain that that judgment must be a favourable one. No matter what index we take, whether of productivity, total production, total exports or dollar exports, I think the verdict must be that the sort of controlled full employment we are trying to run in this country not only works—which we always knew it would—but also works a great deal more efficiently than many people expected. Undoubtdly, much of the credit must go to the policy of disinflation associated with the present Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has played a very large part in carrying this policy through and undoubtedly this policy, to a very considerable extent, has been responsible for our present much more favourable state of affairs. Given that the objective is to maintain our present equilibrium we come to the   question of what kind of Budget we ought to have this year. This is where I begin to differ from the Chancellor. I take the view that on the whole we have not had the Budget we should have had. I find myself in somewhat of a dilemma and faced with some conflict of loyalties. Although I do not suppose that the Committee is interested in my opinions, I may say that in the past I have supported very strongly the Chancellor's policy of disinflation. At the time of the last Budget for example, I thought that that unpopular Budget was absolutely correct and, if anything, that it should have been more unpopular. I also think that some of the very wild figures thrown at his head during the pre-Budget period this year were, for the most part, complete nonsense. However, despite the fact that my instincts would be to defend him, particularly when he introduces a not very popular Budget, I think that in this particular year he has erred very seriously on the side of excessive caution. In his speech yesterday the Chancellor said, very properly, that the Budget must now be a balancing item in the accounts of the whole nation, and that the sort of Budget we have must be determined by the way various other trends in our national economy are going. He put estimates on a number of these trends and in every single case I think he erred somewhat on the side of caution. He knows very much better than I do that these estimates are not really extremely accurate figures, that they are, to a certain extent, a matter of guess-work and that there is a very large margin of error. They are, to a large extent, prophecies about certain things which, even in a fairly efficiently planned economy, are not entirely under the control of the Government. The Chancellor estimated an increase of production of 21 per cent. this year, compared with 4 per cent. last year. He agreed that this was a conservative estimate, and he said that the figures for January and February this year already showed that it was proving a conservative estimate. There is no doubt whatsoever that the actual increase in productivity will be substantially greater than the one for which he has budgeted. Then there were his estimates of the general level of investment. There has been a great deal of argument as to what  will happen to the level of stocks in 1950–51. Again, extremely wild figures have been put forward suggesting that industrial investment will run down by 300 million. I do not think that will happen. But I think the Government have taken the most cautious view possible of the behaviour of investment and that it is arguable that investment in 1950–51 will be below the Chancellor's estimate. As far as the foreign balance is concerned, the Chancellor estimates that we shall move from a deficit to a surplus of £50 million. It seems the most optimistic estimate that could possibly be made, and I am not entirely convinced about what he said on the desirability of at once achieving a surplus in the foreign balance in all circumstances. At any rate, I would myself expect the rise in inflationary pressure resulting from changes in the foreign balance over the next 12 months to be somewhat less than he expects. All these figures are subject to a very wide margin of error. It would be quite possible, on calculations equally plausible and equally likely to be right as the Chancellor's own calculations, to reach a situation in which overall concessions could have been made on a substantial scale in this Budget. Moreover, the Government are now in some danger of underestimating the extent to which the underlying trends in our economy are now disinflationary. We have come to the end of the post-war inflation period, when our affairs were dominated by a very high rate of restocking, of rehabilitation of industrial equipment, and of improvement in the foreign balance. More and more, from now onwards, the dominant factor each year will be the increase in productivity which, of course, will exercise here a regular disinflationary effect. I think we are moving to the end of the really serious inflationary period and that the trend is towards disinflation. But even if he did not accept the whole of this analysis, on his own figures the Chancellor might have taken a slight risk. The argument for taking that slight risk is that it seems that 1950 is certain to be dominated economically by the wages question. I think hon. Members would agree that the policy of wage restraint, which, I think is a matter of agreement on all sides of the Committee,   is now in serious danger of breaking down. Moreover, this policy could have been substantially strengthened if we had had a Budget containing more concessions than were contained in the Budget presented yesterday. In fact, the crux of the matter seems to be that even if the Chancellor of the Exchequer thinks that the situation as a whole is more inflationary than I do—and, clearly, he does think so —it would have been worth gambling, worth taking the risk of a slight increase in what I might call the savings-investment kind of inflation, which he discussed last night, in order to avoid a more serious risk of a very much more damaging type of inflation—a wage and cost induced inflation. That is the size of the problem which he had to face, and that is why I think he might have been wise to have accepted a slight increase in inflation of the traditional kind in order to preserve a much greater degree of restraint on the wages front. By not doing so he has certainly condemned himself to the necessity, later, of a very dramatic and possibly very spectacular Government intervention of some form or another in order to try to buttress the whole policy of wages restraint. As the opportunity of buttressing that policy by the Budget has not been used, some other intervention by the Government will, I believe, be called for later in the year. Everybody has advised me that the one really crashing error which a maiden speaker can make is to speak for too long, so perhaps I may devote the last two or three minutes of my speech to dealing with the nature of the concessions which the Chancellor has made. Accepting for the moment his general thesis that the state of the economy was so closely balanced that we could not have any net concessions, there is still the increase in the petrol tax—a measure which I, personally, entirely support—which gave him £70 million to £75 million which he could use. He has chosen to use this money in Income Tax relief. I do not think that was the right way to use it because if I am right in supposing—and I think most hon. Members will agree with me—that the dominant problem in 1950 will be the wages problem, then I believe that this £70 million to £75 million should have been used not on tax  reliefs but to influence the cost of living and prices. I think that if the money were used in that way, and not to reduce taxation, there would be more chance of the general restraint on the wages front being continued. My own preference would have been for the money to be used in a variety of ways. I know that there are arguments as to how practicable those different methods are, but, personally, I should have preferred another 2d. off beer—although the Chancellor perhaps had a certain bias against that after his experience last year. It would have cost the Exchequer very little. I should have preferred to have seen Purchase Tax taken off a small group of household articles which are in fairly general use and, also, I should have preferred to have seen not such a large reduction in net food subsidies as the one which has been made — from £465 million to £410 million. I believe that if we are to have a policy of wages restraint under full employment we must use subsidies as a flexible weapon, as part of our wages policy as a whole. I think we were wrong in accepting, as a result of the decisions after devaluation, so large a reduction in net subsidies as that from £465 million to £410 million. To sum up, my main argument is a plea to the Chancellor, who has fought for so long a brave and even a rather lonely battle against inflation, to realise that possibly the main danger now has come on another flank and not on that flank at all, and that a certain reversal of policy might, therefore, be necessary.
