gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am honoured to have been called to address the House for the first time. It is a special privilege to be allowed to do so in the debate on the Autumn Statement, which has been delayed nearly as long as this speech. Sitting under the Strangers Gallery tonight is the Conservative Member for Blaydon between the years 1931 and 1935—not, I hope, the last Tory representative for that area. He has been my friend and political mentor for many years. He tells me that in his day one informed the Whips when it was convenient for one to attend the House. The position seems to have been reversed over the years. I know that the whole House will join me in wishing my predecessor, Michael Havers, now in another place as Lord Havers of St. Edmondsbury, an early return to robust health. It is widely recognised that during his exceptionally long service as Attorney-General he had a formidable workload the success of which remained largely unrecognised owing to its sensitive nature. The burden clearly took its toll upon his health. I am confident that the House will agree that The Times got it right when it described him recently as one of the straight men of politics —as noble a tribute as any to which any hon. Member could aspire. To achieve the highest office of precedence as Lord Chancellor, with all its constitutional, legal and procedural duties, only to have to lay down the burden shortly thereafter must have been a bitter blow. In wishing him well, I take the opportunity to thank him for his wise counsel. It is a privilege to follow his 17 years of service as Member of Parliament for Wimbledon. I wish to depart slightly from the usual convention by mentioning also Michael Havers' own predecessor, Sir Cyril Black. A number of hon. Members will remember his service in the House from 1950, when he gained the seat, for 20 years thereafter. He continues to offer unparalleled and unselfish service to the area with which he has so long been associated. I cannot speak too highly of his accumulated wisdom, which he has been kind enough to share with me. To follow two such distinguished Members, both of whom served Wimbledon so well in their different ways, will present a challenge which I address with understandable misgivings. The constituency of Wimbledon forms the western part of the London borough of Merton and, although in the popular mind it is associated with the village of Wimbledon, it extends very much further, with an agreeable diversity of people and interests. Let nobody think that it is a unformly affluent area free of social and other problems. On the eastern side of the railway, which bisects the constituency, there are areas of relative deprivation as one moves towards the boundary, which runs along the course of the river Wandle. Merton has a distinguished and interesting history dating from an Iron Age settlement. Henry VI was crowned at Merton priory and, by marriage, the royal connection continues, as the Princess of Wales' father, also in another place, is the lord of the manor of Wimbledon. His forefathers inherited Wimbledon house by descent  from Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough. It was one of Lord Spencer's predecessors who found himself in dispute with the inhabitants of Wimbledon in 1864. He proposed to enclose the common and subsequent protests led to an Act of Parliament vesting it in a specially constituted body of conservators. Another parliamentary predecessor of mine, Sir Henry Peek, played an active part in preserving the area for ""public enjoyment"". The present system continues and I can tell the House that no hard feelings persist. However, the unique status of the common and the method of its funding are likely to produce difficulties in relation to the restructuring of local government finance. But I shall be raising that point with my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment on a more suitable occasion. Wimbledon common has been the site, as well as the subject, of dispute on many occasions in the past. Pitt the younger, while Prime Minister, engaged in duelling on the common, luckily without serious results, before the practice ended in the mid-19th century. The common was, from the time of the Restoration, the site of military reviews and manoeuvres and both the royal tournament and Bisley trace their origins to those events. The most famous of Wimbledon's inhabitants, however, was a sailor, Lord Nelson, who lived at Merton place in the present south Wimbledon, in his famous menage a trois with Sir William and Lady Hamilton. It was from this house that he left to meet his death at the battle of Trafalgar. Three other distinguished men of Wimbledon were William Wilberforce, a pioneering Tory who did so much to bring about the abolition of slavery, Baden-Powell, who wrote his ""Scouting for Boys"" there, and John Innes of horticultural fame, who, in Merton park, founded one of the first garden suburbs. Merton has a long history of learning and the 13th century statute of the same name was repealed only in 1923. Excellent schools of many types flourish in the borough, as my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury can testify from his personal knowledge. The influence of various religious bodies is a marked power for good in the constituency, as is the medical work carried out at the Atkinson Morley's and Nelson hospitals. The constituency is mainly residential with a well-balanced community. The tradition for commerce and light industry, dating from the snuff mills and the fabric works, established by William Morris, persists and flourishes. Several new companies, many with a high technology element, are moving into the district, joining such old companies as leather curriers. The name of Wimbledon is universally associated with lawn tennis and, in recent times, it has acquired the additional distinction of first division football. Many other sports from golf to greyhound racing are enjoyed and there are also other admirable cultural and leisure opportunities. I address the House at a time when the funding and functioning of the welfare state has been called increasingly into question. One of the privileges shared by all hon. Members is the opportunity to see at first hand the immense amount of voluntary activity, often unrecognised, carried out in the service of others. Basic human instinct to help those most vulnerable in society is reflected in this voluntary work and in the financial contributions from so many. I like the term ""community self-help"", analogous with the concept of individual self-help. There   is nothing novel about that. After all, many of our great hospitals and educational establishments started life as charitable institutions. Although it would be naive to suggest that the private sector and voluntarily raised finance could solve the present difficulties, they nevertheless have their part to play. I see no ideological bar to such funds supplementing the welfare state and hope that there would be universal support for that. A move in this direction would go some way towards satisfying the recent call made by the presidents of three of the royal medical colleges for additional and alternative funding in the National Health Service"". I noted with interest the arguments of my right hon. Friend the Member for Shropshire, North (Mr. Biffen) in that context. I speak from some small experience, having been involved with a charity set up in my father's name, which has my right hon. Friend the Member for Castle Point (Sir B. Braine) as president. Among other things, we have provided funds for beds and living accommodation for the families of critically ill children to stay in National Health Service hospitals at times of anxiety. Only this week, we have contributed to the renovation of an underused building at Bart's. That hospital, where I trained, was founded over 850 years ago and it seems illogical that an organisation such as the National Health Service, established barely 40 years ago, should be expected to cope unaided with today's unlimited demands. If charities, which now have an annual turnover in excess of £10 billion a year, are to play their full part in our society, two requirements must be satisfied—first, the incentives for giving should be increased and, secondly, the funds gathered should be used as efficiently as possible. On the first point, I must congratulate the Government on their success over the past eight years in creating a climate favourable to charities. The 1986 measures have been described as the best charity Budget that we have ever had. The extension of tax relief to companies for one-off gifts was a major step forward. These are early days yet for the payroll giving scheme for individuals, but many employers, including central Government Departments, have set up the appropriate machinery. However, a new publicity boost is needed from the Government to increase general awareness of the scheme and to spur on charities and their agencies to take advantage of it. Provided that the administrative burden is not too great, income tax relief for individuals on single gifts might also be arranged in due course. My second point is to urge the implementation of last year's Woodfield report. The inadequacies which it identified in the supervision of charities must be remedied. The question of registration should be tackled to go beyond the endorsement or otherwise of submitted statements of charitable aims. A very small number of cases of abuse taint the image of charities in general. Unfortunately, there are cases of bodies claiming tax relief for non-charitable purposes, fraud or tax avoidance. A requirement for charities to submit annual accounts must be sensible and these should also be made available to the public. Although I am aware of the practical objections raised on both sides of the House, I also urge the Chancellor to reconsider possible sanctions to discourage the accumulation of funds. Such accumulations may be perfectly proper, but there have been cases of idleness on the part  of trustees and there is always a potential danger in the practice which I have heard described as ""money looking for trouble to happen"". It seems ludicrous that the Charity Commission, which has done such valuable work, has inadequate resources, both financially and professionally, to inspect annual accounts and to investigate possible wrongdoing. I am sure that my right hon. Friend would share my reluctance to advocate increased Government expenditure on this matter and perhaps much work, historically done without charge by the commission, could be contracted out, with better use being made of existing resources. The introduction of a modest registration fee, possibly renewable annually, would not be unreasonable. That would be in the interests of good administration and the production of revenue. As the Inland Revenue has the power to disclose prima facie abuse to the commission, staff must obviously be redeployed to adjust to modern-day circumstances. Although a modernised Charity Commission might well pay for itself by preventing unjust fiscal claims, that argument would not in isolation carry weight with the Treasury. Such enlightened Government measures would greatly increase the scope for co-operation between the public, private and voluntary sectors for the good of the population as a whole. I hope to play some small, but effective, part in furthering this end.
