gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence and the courtesy of the Committee in rising for the first time to speak in this debating Chamber. I am conscious that this House is said to be the most critical assembly in the world. At the same time, I am conscious of the fact that it is one which affords the most sympathy and consideration to those who are in the position in which I now stand, of making their first speech as a Member. It is this very fact which sustains me at present. I am quite sure that this is by no means liable to be my finest hour; but it is certainly going to be one of my more nervous moments. I feel that in making a maiden speech on the subject of the Budget one is being watched by hon. Members on both sides of the Committee who have had a great deal of experience in past years. It may already be in the consciousness of bon. Members on both sides of the Committee that I have not always resided in these islands. I have only resided here as a civilian during the past five years, or a little more. I trust that the broader background of my Canadian adherence may prove acceptable to this House, which has set the high example of Parliamentary procedure and democratic   Government which has been followed not only in Canada but in all countries of the Commonwealth and Empire. Early in the Chancellor's introduction of his Budget, he brought in the subject of the Empire and the sterling area. I should like to refresh the memories of hon. Members on what my right hon. Friend said: Hon Members will note that later in my speech I shall have to take account of this new factor as it affects our prospects. I have had stirring answers from that stalwart leader, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, and from my friends the Finance Ministers of India, Pakistan. Ceylon and Southern Rhodesia. and so on. To me that was a very heartening thing. My right hon. Friend went on to say: All these Commonwealth countries, together with the colonial territories whose contribution to the economy of the sterling area is so vitally important, are taking determined action to ensure that the sterling area as a whole is not merely in balance with the rest of the world, as we planned together when we met in January, but will be in surplus with the rest of the world in the latter half of 1952. These are aims far more comprehensive than ever before adopted by the sterling Commonwealth. The right hon. Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell), referred to that earlier this afternoon and, placed as I am, it is not my part to be provocative or controversial. Perhaps I shall be led into temptation before long on another occasion. However, I am quite certain that that is the essence and basis of the recovery of this country. Faith in the Commonwealth sterling countries, associated with the undoubted support which we shall receive, if we ask for it and seek earnestly, from Canada and other countries associated with the Commonwealth of Nations—that is the sure foundation on which this Budget has been planned, and I am sure that my right hon. Friend has been correct in basing it on that foundation. I subscribe to a theory that by ""faith and works"" miracles can be wrought, not only in our private lives, but in national and international life as well. I strongly urge, and put myself on record as saying, that only by increasing work in this country—indeed we must all make up our minds that we have to work harder and be more productive—shall we succeed in this purpose and in sustaining ourselves in this crisis. By that faith and those works we shall, under Providence, with the  Commonwealth and Empire countries be able to survive. We have survived the hurricane of war and the blizzards of a series of financial crises in the past few years in this country, and if we make up our minds and set our wills as a united people we can, if we direct our thoughts on the lines my right hon. Friend has set out in this Budget survive the present difficulties with which we are faced. That is my conviction. I was very glad, and I am sure hon. Members on both sides of the Committee were delighted, to see a reference to the Irish Republic—a brief reference: I have also received a message from the Minister of Finance of the Irish Republic indicating his Government's understanding of the gravity of the situation and their deter mination to play their part in resolving it. I think that was a fine and healthy sign. I am sure it will bring satisfaction to hon. Members on both sides of the Committee and to the people of both Northern and Southern Ireland and all those men who have gone out from that island to other countries. It is a sign of re-affiliation: at least I trust it will prove so. The point I wish to stress is related to Purchase Tax, a subject which seriously affects and has affected the constituency I have the honour to represent on the Scottish Border, the Counties of Roxburgh and Selkirk. Not only there, but throughout the country, especially where textiles are the basis of life, the basis of income, there will be a sense of relief and satisfaction that consideration has been given to Purchase Tax and its relationship to the utility scheme. The Chancellor said: Secondly, we propose to remove an obstacle which up to now has stood in the way of the full development of our export trade, particularly in the vital field of textiles.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th March. 1952; Vol. 497, c. 1276–9.] That is the point in relation to the Purchase Tax which I have seen working adversely in my constituency and I know that hon. Members on both sides of the Committee have had a similar experience. I believe Purchase Tax was instituted in the first place as a deterrent to inflation, at a time when too much money was chasing too few goods. That may have been its original purpose and undoubtedly it was a proper one, but surely we have long since reached the point when Purchase Tax ceases either   to be a purely money-raising tax, a tax for that purpose alone, a revenue producing tax. Perhaps it might have become—I must refrain from controversial matters—even more or less a political instrument. Be that as it may, there is no doubt that if the application of the Chancellor's remarks is made in a proper and progressive way to the textile industry, we will see relief and in many areas I believe we shall see a rapid return to full employment, whereas in the last few weeks and months, and even prior to the last General Election, we saw the beginning of trade recession, particularly in relation to the woollen trade and woollen manufactures, certainly in relation to the border tweed mills. The application of Purchase Tax has a two-fold deterrent effect on the Scottish tweed mills. It has always been a basis of export trade that the experimentation and selection of fabric, wools, colours and all the necessary stuffs required to weave these textiles for the export market, was of necessity sustained by the financial basis of the sales of similar goods in the home market. That, of course, was eliminated by the application of Purchase Tax, a tax up to 66⅔ per cent., and at the same time the introduction of the Utility scheme. There was another feature which had a detrimental effect. The border mills were endeavouring to build up, as they had done with considerable success, the export of Scottish tweed. Such tweed holds a much more important place in the dollar markets of America and Canada than any other export in relation to its capital. We produce quality goods. We do not in this country in the main subscribe to the same mass production methods of manufacturing high-quality materials, whether textiles or other manufactured commodities, as some other countries do. We do not maintain the same high standard of mass production, but we do maintain an even higher and better standard of quality goods—a standard attainable only by the work and skill of our craftsmen, designers and artisans. This skill is invaluable to us. The goods are valuable to us. The skill and the production can be sustained only by the support of the home market, allowing for  sufficient experimentation with goods intended for export to dollar countries in order to get the dollars needed to keep our financial balance in line. I do not wish to dwell too long on this point. I am convinced that the lightening of the Purchase Tax as indicated by the Budget will have a far-reaching effect. Many will be grateful for it. That, I think, will be agreed on both sides of the Committee. I am sure also that there will be—and certainly in my constituency—gratitude in the agricultural areas that certain things that are necessary for the farm workers—rubber boots and other articles of clothing—have been freed from the tax. That is not controversial, and I am sure that this relief will encourage the workers in agriculture, especially as it is combined with other benefits which derive from this Budget. I should like to make a brief reference to my hon. Friend the Member for Blackley (Mr. E. Johnson), who also made his maiden speech today. As has been said, it is a happy coincidence that we have both selected this day—without collusion—for our maiden speeches. It is a coincidence that we should both have lived in Canada, although I have spent considerably more years there than he. I am very glad that we join other hon. Members of this Committee who have associations and affiliations beyond these islands—associations and affiliations of a wider scope than those limited to this country. I believe that those associations are a good thing. I believe that that will work to the benefit of all the countries concerned. I think that it is a form of Imperial Preference—an interchange of imports and exports of ideas between the Mother Country and the Dominions and Colonies. I think it is a good thing and will make for better understanding. I am delighted that my hon. Friend has made his maiden speech on the same day as I have made mine. The Budget we are debating today is the first Budget of this new Elizabethan era. I think that that is significant, too. I believe that, even while we face the present grim financial facts, we can look forward, if we have faith in ourselves, which we ought to have, to a great future—to another age of glory and success like that of the first Elizabethan era. We have the determination and we have the greatest craftsmen in the world and the most inventive brains. If we work with sufficient energy and determination, now that we have been offered incentives in all walks of life to do so, this may well be the beginning of a new Elizabethan era, and I believe that in the next, the third quarter of this century, with the benefit of scientific research, and, perhaps, the application of atomic research to peaceful purposes, we may attain a state of civilisation and a greater improvement in our way of life than any we have hitherto expected to be possible in the latter half of this century. We should do well to try to forswear for ever national introspection. When I came to live in this country at the end of the war it seemed to me that the nation had become introspective politically, economically, and in many other ways. This should be thrown over. We should be outward looking. Therein lies not only salvation but greater glory in its truest sense, with the greater possibility of working with other Empire countries and with all others of good will for the maintenance of peace. We must raise our sights and vision beyond the horizon, remembering that that is our environment, too, and that there are natural resources we need. There are many topics I should like to mention, but I cannot speak of them all in a Budget debate. The Committee may feel inclined to take me to task for some of these ideas. At some later time I shall be glad to have occasion to follow the famous signal of a famous seaman, ""Engage the enemy more closely,"" and engage in controversy with hon. Members opposite if they wish to take me to task. For the present, I thank the Committee for the courtesy it has shown to me in listening to me as it has done on this, the first occasion on which I have had the honour to make a speech in this Chamber.
