gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with due humility to address the House for the first occasion. The subject of our debate is, of course, one which affects every hon. Member no matter what constituency he may represent. In the constituency of Surrey, East, which I have the honour to represent the problem  is a very real one because it is one of the parts of the country where, fortunately, there is still land upon which building can take place. Therefore, the people in that area will welcome very much the news that they will be able to build for themselves at a greater rate and that council tenants will be able to buy the houses in which they are living, if they so wish. There has been a lot of talk in the House, and out of it, as if the people who are to be given this increased quota of building licences were a kind of privileged or fortunate class. In fact, they are people who are carrying out a great public service. They are building one more house; they are reducing the deficit by one and at no cost to the State or to the local council. Instead of criticising them we ought to give them every encouragement that lies in our power to give as a House of Commons. May I suggest one or two lines upon which that might be done? My right hon. Friend the Minister for Housing and Local Government very rightly said that the price or rental value is fixed upon houses when the building licence is granted. No one would criticise that for a moment. It is very necessary to stop any form of profiteering or undesirably high rents, though I would point out that, between the wars, when new houses were built they were not subject to the Rent Restrictions Acts or any other restriction so that people might be encouraged to build them. I am not suggesting that that should be the case now. I am suggesting that a time limit should be put on that restriction on maximum price and rent. There comes a time when people wish to move somewhere else or when they wish to retire. The restriction is now placed upon these houses in perpetuity. I am certain it would be sufficient if a time limit were imposed on that restriction which, I believe, was issued under a Defence Regulation. No application at any time should be allowed in respect of those houses to the rents tribunal which is set up under the Landlord and Tenant (Rent Control) Act, 1949. It is no encouragement to anybody who is going to build a house, whether to let immediately or at some future date, that the tenant can take him before a tribunal which has no legal   qualifications, which sits in a place one hardly knows, from which there is no appeal and which is not subject to the rules of evidence or procedure, and which can reduce the rent. I submit that the sooner the relevant section of that Act is abolished and the sooner these tribunals are abolished the more encouragement there will be to people who build houses and thereby reduce the housing deficit. I say that apart from the general dislike one has of these extra-judicial tribunals. Again, to make up for the building licences which are granted to private persons we must make a larger allocation of houses to the local council. To encourage and enable people to build or to buy their houses a power which at present exists under Section 5 of the Housing Act, 1949, to allow councils, with the approval of the Minister to guarantee building society advances, should be used in proper cases to the full. It should be used so that it cannot be said that people are unable to obtain advances to enable them to build. I need hardly say that up to the present that power has not been allowed to be exercised. I hope it will be in the future.  Again, so far as councils are concerned—and I am fortunate to be able to say that in East Surrey we have two very progressive and go-ahead councils in this respect—the licences, where possible, should be issued in economic units. That is to say, the council should wait until it has 10 or 12 plots neighbouring each other so that 10 or 12 houses can be built with economy in materials, labour and time as economical units. Do not let us forget that if there should be building licences available for which there has not been a sufficient number of individual applications there is no reason why those licences should not be issued in blocks to what are sometimes called speculative builders, though I think we should leave out the word ""speculative"" and call them builders. The licences should be issued to these builders so that people who want to see their houses before they buy can have them built. It was done with great success between the wars and, speaking entirely for myself, I see no reason why that should not be the case today. By doing so we should accelerate the rate of building and encourage house  ownership among the people of this country so that they could take a pride in the homes they occupy and could at least say that a portion of England—and that includes Scotland and Wales as well—however small it might be, belongs to them. By increasing the allocation of houses we shall see that there is a sufficient number of houses to let for those who wish to rent rather than to buy a house. If, as I feel quite certain, a very large number of houses will be built throughout the country, particularly on the outskirts of towns, let us remember that we must have open spaces and parks. A mere succession of mile after mile of streets and houses is not going to make very attractive towns. If our forefathers had built in that way there would have been no Hyde Park, no Clapham Common, none of the open spaces we know so well. When planning streets and houses let us remember to leave playing fields, parks and other open spaces for the health and amenity of the people who live in the neighbourhood. The hon. Member for Bolton, West (Mr. Holt), touched upon the effect of the Rent Restrictions Acts. That is very important because they are largely the cause of the rapid deterioration of the houses already built. If we only build new houses and ignore what is, in fact, a very much larger number of houses, namely those already built, we may find that while we have a very large item on the credit side we have also an excessively large item on the debit side. These Acts, which affect so many millions of our people, are, to say the least of it, far from simple. There are 13 such Acts with seven Schedules, and nine statutory Orders. They are difficult for anybody to comprehend. They are almost impossible for those whom they most affect to begin to understand. May I suggest, as a beginning, that we sweep away every one of these Acts and Orders and put in their place one single Act which would be less incomprehensible at least and more up-to-date than this conglomeration of Acts extending as they do over the best part of 40 years? Perhaps by so doing we might relieve the difficulties and hardships placed upon both landlords and tenants and improve the quality of the houses in which both are so vitally interested. Perhaps, as a beginning, I might be able to persuade my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to be a little more generous in Schedule A allowances in respect of repairs to those houses and to see that maintenance claims are repaid a little more quickly than they are under the present system. We are now only at the beginning of a great housing drive which will be going on right through the country. As time goes on I hope we shall see more and more families living in good houses, whether they own them or whether they rent them from somebody else, and that owners will be able to maintain houses already built in a good and decent condition.
