gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I crave the indulgence of this House, which is customarily and so generously given to new Members in addressing the House for the first time? I will, if I may, and within the realm of the Amendment before the House, refer to some aspects of financial control, in particular in the hospital field. Before doing so, may I say that it gives me particular pleasure on what is to me, a unique occasion to follow the hon. Member for Tottenham (Mr. Messer) who has done such magnificent work in the building up of this service both at the regional board level and in the position in which he is highly honoured—that of chairman of the Central Health Services Council? Despite his admonition, I would desire to say just this: that whatever controversies may have raged in the past as to the form the Health Service should take, whatever battles may have been won and lost, it can now he fairly stated that both inside and outside this House the people of this country are anxious that the National Health Service, with such changes as may from time to time be necessary, shall be a resounding success. Beginning, if I may, with hospital and specialist services, the Supplementary Estimates bring the total under this heading—the heading dealing with advances to regional boards and boards   of management—to the level of £215 million, some £45 million higher than the corresponding figure for the first year, bringing the nine months period up to date to 12 months. A significant point is that of that total expenditure—and it is of particular significance in view of what we have heard this afternoon—some 95 per cent. is for day-to-day expenditure and only some 5 per cent. is for capital expenditure. In pre-Act days the expenditure of local authority hospitals was conditioned by the prospect held before the members of local authorities of periodic re-appearance before the electorate. The voluntary hospital field expenditure was conditioned by the money available for the prospects, bright or dim, of obtaining that money. Now I turn to this administrative set-up—I should say, in parenthesis, that I believe the set-up to be a right one and my only misgivings are whether Scotland has not achieved something better than ourselves. In this administrative set-up the difficulty, it seems to me, is this, that the expenditure of the hospital management committees, lacking such checks, is contingent upon the prospect of a successful argument with the regional hospital boards, and the check upon the regional hospital boards is the prospect of a successful argument with the Ministry of Health. In consequence, there is a weak element of accountability. As has been said, the budgets, the estimates, of hospital management committees are gathered together by the regional hospital boards, where they may be summarised and criticised, but the Minister's role and the Minister's problem is to exercise central control after the budgets have been assembled and received, after they have been through the regional mill; and his difficulty, it seems to me, is to impose, often too late, cuts—for it is as cuts that they are regarded—on the regional boards and hospital management committees. Now the right hon. Gentleman has—I think, rightly—proclaimed his intention to permit the highest possible measure of local responsibility and local autonomy, and the difficulty which has to be resolved is, how to reconcile that local responsibility, that local budget preparing, with central financial control. Already the Minister has sought to impose a cut only  to find it impossible. I am glad—for I understand it to be the case—that the Minister has decided in future to make allocations of money, not earmarked for particular hospital management committees, but to regional hospital boards for their allocation. I believe that to be a step in the right direction. Even so, and even if all possible central economies are effected, it is impossible not to expect a substantial increase in hospital expenditure. The proportion of expenditure for capital development is in the region of 5 per cent., and under the present system there are few hospitals which cannot effectively sustain arguments for rebuilding a new wing, or buying a new piece of apparatus—arguments which the Minister, under this set up, will find it impossible to resist. If we may look at the problem in isolation for a moment I would say that I see the prospect of increased expenditure on hospitals—justifiable in relation to hospital considerations—of £100 million or even £200 million in the next few years. This brings me to this point, that if it be assumed—and I assume it—that there is a limit to what can properly be raised by taxation without killing, or at least injuring, the goose that lays the golden egg; if that be true, and if it be true that such increased expenditure is a reasonable possibility, then we are led up against the crucial issue of the priority of social services in relation to limited resources. We are approaching—the Chancellor of the Exchequer made me wonder today whether we had reached it now, in his view—we are approaching a decision as between hospitals and houses, as between clinics and schools; and sooner or later there must be a proper allocation of resources as between one form of social service and another. I do not presume to say whether the limit has been reached, or what the priority should be, but I do believe that the one way of strengthening the hand of the Minister of Health in this matter—the one way—is the pre-determination of a sum of money, at whatever level it may be, which is available to be expended on the Health Service. Now, this would mean in the case of the hospital services an annual allocation of money to regional hospital boards, and in turn the allocation to hospital management committees. Clearly, that allocation must be sufficient   to meet maintenance costs, with a reasonable allowance for capital development. In this way the local hospital management committees would receive a control comparable in some ways to the accountability of old. It might have this further advantage. The public, recognising the element of State provision, to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred today, would return once more—recognising the character as well as the limit of the provision—to that old and friendly and supporting attitude towards the hospitals of this country. I do not mean a return to flag days and the like, but there are still people and organisations who are anxious to help their fellow men, and who find in service for the hospitals opportunities which, in their experience, cannot be equalled in other fields. Apart from anything else, I believe that the existence of such opportunities does good to the people who take advantage of those opportunities. I hope I shall not weary the House if I refer very briefly to two other aspects of the Supplementary Estimates. It is, perhaps, inappropriate here to refer to the comparison between the cost of general practitioner services, relating as they do to the general medical care of the whole body, and cost of dental and supplementary ophthalmic services, which, though important, relate to circumscribed parts of the body. Nor is it the occasion to refer to general practioners' remuneration, which, in some ways, needs improvement; nor to the margin between the general practitioners' and the specialists' remuneration, which needs to be narrowed. The point I want to stress is this, that the sort of allocation to which I have been referring in relation to the hospital field, exists within limits, and subject to periodic review, in the general practitioner field; which is one of the reasons for the more modest Supplementary Estimate that has been found necessary in that field. But the dental and pharmaceutical services, the greatly increased cost of the dental service, and, even more important, the tragedy of the decay of the school dental service—these things are attributable, in my view, to three main causes. There are too few dentists to provide a comprehensive dental service however it is organised. The dental Spens Report is not being applied to the school dental  services, with the inevitable result that dentists in considerable numbers are leaving for other more remunerative forms of work. Third, the present system of remuneration being the same for all qualities of work, it provides for a minority an incitement to hasty and so to unsatisfactory work. The solution is one of immense difficulty. If we apply—I confess I am doubtful on this point—the allocation principle to these services it will be possible to give expression at long last to the Government's policy of priority for the dental care and treatment of mothers, by providing a complete service for those priority groups, provided that steps are taken to attract back to those dental services the practitioners who have left. The list of priorities could from time to time be extended, but it would mean this. Bearing in mind that there cannot be a comprehensive service because of the shortage of dentists is, perhaps, not so tragic to contemplate. It would mean this, that outside the priority groups there would be a fixed sum of money which would be available as grants in aid for those whose needs were less in this dental field. Whatever else is done we must restore the school dental service and the dental service for expectant and nursing mothers, and reverse the conservative tendency, which, because of haste, has already begun—I do not use the word ""conservative"" in a political sense—to return to the old and more vigorous ""pull it out"" methods in our schools and clinics. May I say one word on the pharmaceutical service which at present is the greatest problem of all? The increase in cost is due in part to an increase in the number of items of service. I believe that the increase there is actually some 7 per cent. It is due in considerable part to the increased cost of the newer drugs which, although expensive, contribute to the service elsewhere by shortening periods of illness. It is due to the tendency—not surprising in view of the initial propaganda—on the part of the public to seek to obtain under the National Health Service arrangements those minor medications and dressings which formerly they were willing to pay for themselves. I admit that, among other causes, is the pressure of the middle-   class, covered by this scheme, for the standard of medication to which they have been accustomed in the form of the better proprietory medicines, and that is, in part, responsible for the increased cost. The remedy is very difficult apart from a cash barrier. I hope that the Minister of Health will say something about what I will call the shilling scheme. I know that the effect of the announcement of that scheme reduced the burden on practitioners, but I hope that the tendency to regard a large number of the lesser items which are demanded of the service and of the doctors in particular as frivolous will cease. The whole of this service was to bring people to the doctor for the trivial to prevent it becoming a tragedy, and there is a tendency in all quarters to regard the trivial as being mainly or wholly frivolous. Of the shilling scheme, I would say this: I can see its force and effect in one direction, but, speaking only for myself, I have the most serious doubts as to its practicability, and I have serious doubts whether it will be possible to devise a scheme which is fair to all sections of the community, particularly to the larger families. Lastly, may I thank the House for the patience with which it has listened to me—recognising that the strain on some Members may have been greater than usual—and thank the whole House and its staff on behalf of the new Members generally for the friendliness and cordiality with which they are received into the Parliamentary community.
