gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address this House for the first time with a feeling of considerable trepidation, having due regard and respect for its great historical traditions. I would ask for your indulgence Sir, and that of hon. Members for a short period. As a representative of one of the most loyal parts of His Majesty's Kingdom, I count it a great privilege to be permitted to speak on matters arising out of the Gracious Speech from the Throne. That Speech contains a number of subjects, many of which, if carried out to the full, will be widely welcomed throughout the country and it is on these matters that I should like to speak now, generally and briefly. For a start I should like to deal with the wellbeing and the greater freedom of the people. I would ask the Government to bear in mind the needs of the man who wishes to set up a small concern of his own, the small trader, the small shopkeeper, the man who wishes to be inde-  pendent and to be his own master, and above all the ex-Service man. There is a great feeling of frustration throughout the country today, that though the war was fought for freedom, the individual freedom of the subject to choose his or her own trade or occupation is still being hampered and very much restricted. It is this individual freedom of enterprise which has made Great Britain the country that she is and which can keep her in the forefront of the nations of the world in the future, but it is a freedom which is dwindling under large State monopolies. I welcome the statement that the farmer will be given guaranteed prices and assured markets. It is the fear of many in the farming community that now that the war is over, no matter what Government is in power, they will be forgotten, that what they did during the past seven years will count for nothing in the future, and that they will be left to fend for themselves in competing against imports from abroad to the loss and detriment of the home grower. The statement in the Gracious Speech will, I hope, allay many of these fears. The reference to the burdens of the housewife has, I know, been dealt with very fully in this House already, but I consider that it will meet with wide approval throughout the country. She, more than anyone else, has had, during the war years, to fight an unending battle—a battle to keep her home together and her family healthy and happy. She has had to fight that battle against all sorts of shortages—shortages of her three main requirements, food, fuel and clothing. It was necessary then, but now I consider she deserves not only the sympathy of the Government, but their active assistance in helping her, and in helping her forthwith. I welcome this reference in the Gracious Speech, but I and those whom I represent will welcome it -still more when it has passed the paper stage and we see it actually and tangibly put into practice. Coupled with the housewife I would say a word on the subject of housing. I notice that in the Gracious Speech delivered in August of last year there was reference to: increasing by all practical means the number of homes available in both town and country. There are many in England today who feel that, even allowing for the many post   war building difficulties, much more could have been done in the time. I have no doubt that the Government will do all in their power to rectify this in the future, and I hope that they will also see that the country districts are not neglected, and that the bulk of the houses completed, are not intended for one section of the community only. Finally, the Armed Forces. The important subject of conscription, and the fact that it is not to be applied to Northern Ireland, I will leave for other Ulster representatives of greater experience and more eloquence than myself, but I should like to touch on the subject of the Reserves. I had the honour for four years prior to the war, and throughout it, to be a member of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve. In those years there were many who were willing to give up their time to training for that service and to fitting themselves to undertake responsibility should they be mobilised. That training was excellent, but the facilities provided for it at the various divisional and reserve depots were limited. That, as I understand it, was due to financial restrictions placed upon them. During the war, the Reserves, in one form or another, made up a very large percentage of our total naval strength. Today, with demobilisation, the Fleet—that service which, more than any other, has helped to keep these islands free during many centuries—and I say that with no lack of gratitude or praise to the other fighting units—we are told, is putting to sea undermanned. No doubt, if such is actually the case, the Government will take speedy steps to remedy it, but I would ask them also to bear in mind in future that unheralded and unsung, yet none the less important, part, the Reserves, whether they be in a reconstituted form or otherwise. I would ask that they should be given far greater facilities for training to carry out that for which they joined—namely, the defence of their country—than they have received in the past.
