gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne, East (Mr. Blenkinsop), will forgive me, I am sure, if I do not follow him in his argument, since this is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing the House, and I ask for the customary indulgence of the House. I wish to follow a point made by the President of the Board of Trade in his speech in this House last week. He said that he looked to the textile industry for a large expansion in our exports. The town of Darwen, in Lancashire, which I have the high honour to represent, is still predominantly a cotton town. The smoke from the high chimneys pours out over the terraced houses, as it has poured out for a hundred years. I am afraid that some of it blows eastward into the division of Rossendale, and that has caused the hon. Member for Rossendale (Mr. Anthony Greenwood) some concern over smokeless fuel. I share his concern, and I apologise for the invasion that my division causes. So far from the prospect of a large increase in the export of textiles, the outlook at the moment is unfortunately very much the reverse. Order books are dwindling. There is talk in the weaving sheds of short-time. The explanation—a cloud which is a good deal bigger than a man's hand has descended on Lancashire—is the old explanation of Japanese competition. I have no doubt that years before I came to this House, years before I was capable of thinking of coming to this House, the arguments relating to Japanese competition were canvassed to and fro, over and over again. But they have to be canvassed once more, for although the argument may be the same, I feel in my bones that there is a somewhat different attitude; that in some quarters it is now thought that, somehow, Japan is right and Lancashire is wrong. I was most interested in the observations of the hon. Member for Nelson and Colne (Mr. S. Silverman) last week, when he said that the Asiatic peoples are on the march, and that it is the duty of us and the people of Europe to help them along that road. Those are noble sentiments with which we all agree, but I am wondering, and I think that all the people of Lancashire, including those who sent him to this House are wondering, how one   applies these noble sentiments here and now to the question of the under-cutting by the Japanese, using standards very much lower than we can possibly compete with, and again threatening our people in Lancashire with the evils which they have so bittterly experienced. There is one thing certain in this difficult problem, and that is that in the effort to help the yellow man it is no good depressing the standards of the white man. We do not make a yellow man rich by making a white man poor. In applying these noble sentiments I hope that due regard will be paid to the effect of unfair competition from peoples whose standards of life, though they should be raised, as we all agree, cannot be raised here and now. Therefore, in the immediate problem we shall not allow sentiment, however noble, to cripple us in our endeavour to play our proper part in the world. The people of Darwen are great people. They work extremely hard, perhaps because they are largely on piece work, and, by and large, they own their own houses. There is an old saying in those parts that everyone owns his own house and the house next door. Just how that truth is to be expressed statistically by the Ministry of Housing and Local Government I do not know; but there is a truth in it, and I think that it gives the lie to a certain amount of feeling that there is in all quarters that, somehow, the landlord is a big person. In the north, and certainly in my division, the landlord is a small man. He is as small, and in many cases smaller, than the tenant. If it were not that I was advised by everyone that it was bad form to be provocative in one's first speech, I should be tempted to draw certain conclusions from these special virtues in the people of Darwen as reflected in their electoral behaviour over the last 20 years, but I resist the temptation. No positive solution for even maintaining our textile exports, much less increasing them, has been yet put forward by anybody, with the possible exception of my hon. Friend the Member for Bury and Radcliffe (Mr. W. Fletcher). His suggestion was at least positive, but rather gloomy. He suggested we might be driven back to barter arrangements, bartering our textiles for timber. Has it really come to that, that after 2,000 or  3,000 years of human progress, we must, to save ourselves, go back to the habits of our ancestors who, stained with woad, bartered their jet and tin for the spices of the East, or whatever they wanted? Surely some more positive and better proposal could be thought out, because no party has ever solved this problem and it is coming up again. Five years after her total defeat, Japan is now taking away the markets that we captured in the Far East and in South America and lapping ever closer to our shores. With the very greatest respect to the President of the Board of Trade I urge him that something more than merely looking to the textile industry for a great expansion of our exports will be needed. Another piece of advice that a maiden speaker is given on these occasions—one is given so much that one rises almost in a state of nervous prostration—and I as sure it is a good one, is that one should be brief. I wish to oppose the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for Lewisham, South (Mr. H. Morrison), and hope that the President of the Board of Trade, who has the good will of all sections of the textile industry, will devote his young and virile mind to shielding us from the horrors that are to come upon Lancashire unless something positive is done. I do not think that our confidence in my right hon. Friend will be misplaced.
