gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I rise to address the Committee for the first time, may I crave the indulgence of hon. Members and express the hope that they will extend to me the courtesies which by tradition are normally given to hon. Members speaking for the first time. I hope that the right hon. Member for Derby, South (Mr. P. Noel-Baker), whose sincerity in all matters I have always respected, will forgive me if I do not follow him too closely in his argument as, otherwise, I might delve into the forbidden territory of controversy. I have the honour to represent the City of York, a city which is rich in the traditions of the history of this country and a city which has given its name to England's greatest county and to its greatest cricketers. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Oh.""] A statistical study of the present cricket league table will prove my point. It is also a great privilege to have followed such a distinguished predecessor as Mr. Speaker. The merchants of York were trading abroad as early as the fourteenth century, and since then York has had close commercial ties with many countries, none more so than with West Africa upon which York depends mainly for cocoa for its manufacture of chocolate. In this context, I think it would be right to mention the increasing urgency for far wider commodity price stabilisation agreements not only to safeguard the primary producer but also the manufacturer. The calling of a Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference is a matter of congratulation in itself, for it provides an opportunity for frank and forthright discussions without recourse to rigid rules and fixed agendas and in an atmosphere of independence and yet of understanding which is perhaps unique in the council chambers of the world. Of course, we have our differences and our disagreements—no civilised country at this time could fail to be horrified by the racial policies of the South African Government—and we are right and correct in our duty to express them as frankly and as fully as we can. But the very backgrounds and beliefs and the very continents from which so diversely come the peoples of the Commonwealth ensure that we do not see everything in the same light. However, we can at least discuss our differences in a spirit of basic loyalty and in the knowledge that far more unites us than divides us, which is the fascination of the Commonwealth and the fascination of its Conferences. When the Prime Ministers' Conference meets here in London hon. Members have a chance to meet Commonwealth leaders. But why does the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference meet only in London? Would it not be possible for it to meet some time in New  Delhi, in Canberra or in Ottawa to give the politicians and the peoples of those territories a chance to see what the fascination of Commonwealth Conferences really is and how much basic understanding lies and exists in a Commonwealth atmosphere? Not having an agenda is a great advantage to the Prime Ministers of the Commonwealth, but perhaps some slight disadvantage in that we do not know entirely what they discuss. There is one subject upon which I hope the Commonwealth Prime Ministers touched. If they did not touch upon it at the last Conference, I certainly hope that they may do so next time they meet. It is a coincidence, I am sure, but a significant one, that we should be meeting on 4th July, when the independence of the United States is celebrated, and that we are meeting a week after Ghana and Somaliland became Republics and the Congo Republic became independent. The inevitable pattern of the 1960's, and rightly so, will see the independence of most Colonial Territories, at least this side of the Iron Curtain. However, independence is not the end of the struggle but the beginning of a new one. All too often the sole preoccupation of politicians in territories seeking independence is what they would all refer to as ""the struggle for freedom"", and, indeed, the basic slogan of most of their political parties is ""Freedom"". But this freedom brings responsibilities. If hon. Members would put themselves for a moment in the position of their opposite numbers in newly independent territories, they would have to ask themselves and examine the following questions. What is the basis of our political ideology now that freedom has been won? What is the kind of political and social society that we desire? What form of co-operation are we to have with our immediate neighbours? What form of political and economic asociation are we to have in our continent? What are to be our relations with the West and with the Communist world? Are we to build a society based upon the European pattern, a society based upon the Communist pattern or a society for ourselves? Above all, on what foundations can we find for ourselves a place in a rather power-drunk world? All these are immediate and vital decisions   Surely, above all, it is a time for leadership and leaders to guide a society in which citizenship and a community spirit are at hand. The Albemarle Report stresses the vital need for youth work in this country. But if it be true of this country, how, much more is it true abroad? Young people of my generation are achieving positions of authority out of all proportion to their age and experience. It is my privilege to have been for many years involved in international youth work and to have represented British youth organisations at many international conferences. I have seen the incredible lack of effective youth organisations teaching citizenship and community spirit in the Commonwealth. Yet I have also seen the great work which such international organisations as the Boy Scouts and the Girl Guides are doing on limited resources. There are many examples which one could give of the work being done. Perhaps one is the newly formed Voluntary Service Overseas, in which there are sixty-five young people just after leaving school who have gone out into the Commonwealth countries to help to build up effective youth organisations in those Territories. This country leads the world in its structure of voluntary youth organisations, and we have a tremendous practical contribution to make to help other countries in the Commonwealth, a contribution which would be of far greater value than the money which would be spent upon it. I realise that the Government are aware of these problems. Two years ago they set up a Committee under Field-Marshal Sir Gerald Templer to study this problem, before which I gave evidence. The Committee produced a comprehensive Report, but nothing has since been heard, and I know that the situation is causing anxiety to many voluntary bodies. A Commonwealth Youth Trust sponsored by the Commonwealth Prime Ministers could provide the finance, coordinate resources and call on the experience of so many organisations that a really effective drive to establish youth work in the Commonwealth could be made. I urge that this should be given consideration before the Commonwealth Prime Ministers meet again. I am not suggesting that this would be a panacea for all our ills, but I do suggest that with the training of leaders, with the development of the responsibilities to the community and with the teaching of citizenship to the young people in the Commonwealth, we should be providing many Territories with a far better chance to stand on their own feet and find a solution to their problems.
