gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Addressing this House for the first time, I trust that it will extend to me that indulgence which it customarily shows to inexperience. My right hon. Friend, in introducing this Bill, not only made out a strong case for the amalgamation of the smaller forces, but also answered in advance the arguments of the mover and seconder of the Amendment. He did so by the emphatic terms in which he expressed his willingness to meet, now and on the Committee stage of the Bill, the representatives of the local authorities, and the other interests concerned in the matter. It is agreed that this is a question on which it is best to go as far as   possible by agreement, and to go as short a distance as possible by compulsion. I believe that the pronouncement of my right hon. Friend will be very welcome, and I trust that, in his consultations, he will include, not only the local authorities, but also the representatives of the police officers of all ranks. The first matter to which I hope it will be possible to give attention is the special position of the larger non-county boroughs. It so happens that one of these falls in the division which I have the honour to represent. The borough of Colchester is not, by any means, the largest of the non-county boroughs affected by this Bill, but it is worth noting that, in point of 1931 population, it is larger than seven of the counties, which, according to the statistics provided by my right hon. Friend in a written reply yesterday, maintain independent police forces at the present time. These large boroughs already have, in many cases, special problems of their own, and I trust that my right hon. Friend will be able to give some consideration to their position and to their special problems. We have heard mention of the figures which appeared in the report of the Select Committee in 1932. Perhaps my right hon. Friend, when he replies to the Debate, will not be able to refer to any specific figure, but I hope it will be possible, in the consultations on this Bill, to take that aspect into consideration. My right hon. Friend spoke very coldly of Clause 1 and very warmly of Clause 2, although he went on to qualify that warmth by speaking very sadly of Clause 3. I would ask him to consider whether, perhaps, he may not bring some of the larger non-county boroughs away from the provisions of Clause 1, of which he spoke socoldly, and under the provisions of Clause 2, which he approached with more warmth. The second matter is the nature of the police authorities who are to exist after the absorption of the non-county boroughs. The scope and the variety of the work of county police authorities are bound to be extended, and increased by the passage of the Bill. The responsibilities of the chief constables in the counties will be increased and extended. I hope it will be possible to take note of the feeling in the larger non-county boroughs, and, indeed, in the smaller ones as well, that their experience in police matters, which  extends over a very long period of time, may not be fully represented, and may not be fully effective, unless there is some reconsideration of the constitution of the county police authorities, thus going a little further than was indicated by my right hon. Friend in reply to a questioner in the course of his speech. We have had references, which it is, perhaps, not out of place to mention in this connection, to the influence which the Home Secretary can exert upon the police authorities which exist. I hope it will not be out of place for me to express the hope that my right hon. Friend will use that influence when the question of the appointment of new chief constables arises, to encourage the local authorities, as far as possible, to appoint personnel from within the police force, and not to bring individuals from outside, however able, conscientious, and suitable they may be. It always appears to me—and I know it does to other hon. Members—as an unwarrantable under-estimation of the abilities of the rank and file of the police force, and of those who have served many years in it. Unfortunately, it is a form of under-estimation which is a little bit too common in the public service. The third matter has already been referred to by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Hitchin (Major Asterley Jones), and I would add my plea, that my right hon. Friend, when he replies to the Debate, should make reference to it. We have, quite rightly, provision in the Bill to safeguard the position of chief constables. I sincerely hope that we shall not verlook the position of the rather important majority of members of the police force who do not happen to be chief constables, and that we shall ensure that their position is not in any way prejudiced. It is quite clear that the position of many members of smaller forces will be materially improved, but I hope that my right hon. Friend, in his consideration of the Bill and his consideration of the representations he may receive, will ensure that the rights and position of no member of the force are in any way worsened by this Measure. We have already had a most welcome pronouncement by the Home Secretary on one specific question—the position of the members of the borough police forces who do not wish to serve outside the borough itself. I sincerely hope that he will show an attitude   as sympathetic to any other question of a similar kind which may arise. The rights of the individual members of the police force are already too circumscribed in many respects, and it would be most unsatisfactory if they were, in any degree, even in the smallest degree, worsened by this Measure. In all this, I trust my right hon. Friend will not believe that any suspicion or anxiety which may be shown by any local authority, or any person concerned, is in any way a matter of narrow parochialism, of false pride. It arises from a knowledge that for a very long time the enforcement of law and the maintenance of order have been carried out satisfactory, within the boundaries of these authorities, by forces under their own control. That has been done in peace and war, and I trust that in the search for economy and efficiency the flexibility and adaptability which has arisen in the past through local control will not be altogether lost in the future.
