gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
First, I must ask you, Sir Rhys, and the Committee for the indulgence it is customary to give an hon. Member who is facing the ordeal of his first speech in the House. I venture into the debate because it happens that, until a few months ago, I was farming in the troubled areas of Kenya. Most of my workers were originally Kikuyu, and I still have many of them. As far as I am concerned, they have been helpful, friendly and courageous, and I am very grateful to them. I suggest to the Committee that the news from Kenya which sometimes tends to imply that we have made no progress in changing the minds of the Kikuyu is false and misleading. Perhaps I may try to make my point by giving a personal experience. I remember early in the emergency being asked to patrol a piece of road at night by jeep. I asked some of my own Kikuyu whether they would like to go with me. The answer I got was, ""Yes,   we would like to go, but we do not think we had better go because if we were seen to be helping we might get into trouble and our families might be molested."" For about the last six months, or longer, before I left Kenya we were almost every night having patrols and ambushes and so on. After that first experience, I never again asked anyone to go with me. I let it be known that I was going and always there was a party of volunteers to go with me. At first it was only the Kikuyu, but later there were men from other tribes. There was another peculiarity about the patrols. We had been told by the police, by the C.I.D., that all the Kikuyus in our area had taken what was known as the platoon oath, one of the rather more murderous oaths. So one had this situation—it was in no way peculiar to me but was happening to Europeans all over the country—of going on patrol with people supposed to have taken these murderous oaths who were armed with spears, bows and arrows and pangas and the European being the only man armed with a rifle. It would of course have been the easiest thing in the world to put a spear through the European and be in the mountains or forests with his rifle in the morning. But I never felt the faintest flicker of doubt about my Kikuyu, and if the idea occurred to them, I believe that they put it out of their minds. I should like to try to suggest to the Committee what in fact has been going on in the minds of the Kikuyu. I do not agree with the right hon. Member for Rochester and Chatham (Mr. Bottomley) that the great bulk of the Kikuyu are still our enemies and still favour the Mau Mau. I have spent most of my life away from this country in Asia and Africa and, on the whole, I have been surprised not how different varying colours and races are but how alike they are. When I hear people talking about the Asians or the Africans or the Kikuyu as though they were people whose responses and reactions were quite different from our own, I am always extremely suspicious. It is, I think, a fair parallel to compare the Kikuyu in Kenya under the influence of Jomo Kenyatta the Mau Mau with the ordinary rank and file of the  Germans in Germany under Hitler and the Nazis. There was the same prestige of success in the early stages and the same national conceit, the same lure of self-interest but stronger than all those the fear of what might happen if one protested or showed opposition on any count at all. Now in Kenya there is no longer the prestige of success, there is no longer the lure of self-interest and, most important of all, there is no longer the fear of showing oneself in opposition to Mau Mau. 9.0 p.m. Time is short and I will not try to say all that I had thought of saying. [Hon. Members: ""Go on.""] There is one point which I wish to make on which there are misconceptions in this country. There is a belief that, even in the restricted areas where Mau Mau has been active, this is a struggle of black against white. The last night I spent in Kenya during the Christmas Recess I spent in the Athi River rehabilitation camp, of which many hon. Members know. There, they are trying to rehabilitate the Kikuyu by Christian principles. The African perhaps primarily responsible for the work in the camp is David Waruihu, whose name I have heard mentioned here by, I think, the hon. Member for Shettleston (Mr. McGovern). David Waruihu's father was a senior Kikuyu chief who was murdered early in the emergency. Putting aside ideas of revenge, the son has devoted himself in this camp to helping his countrymen, or his fellow tribesmen, who to his mind have lost their way. He told me that that morning one of the men detained in the camp had said that he wanted to talk to him. What he had to tell him was that, having seen that in the camp there were no ideas of revenge, he wanted to inform him that he had been the messenger who had carried the money to his father's murderers. In that camp I talked to quite a big group of Mau Mau detainees who had been rehabilitated. Some of them had been leaders of the Mau Mau in their own districts, where they were well known. They said that they were anxious and willing to go back to the districts where they were known and had been leaders, and there openly to denounce the Mau Mau. The message that these people asked me to take away from that camp   was that, to their minds, this was no longer a struggle of black against white; to their minds, it was a struggle of right against wrong.
