gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate. The constituency of Calder Valley, which I represent, follows the line of the River Calder, nestling in the heart of the south Pennine hills and surrounding but not including the town of Halifax. Much of the upland has been designated an area of outstanding natural beauty and there are significant areas that have been designated sites of special scientific interest. Stretching from Todmorden on the Lancashire border—a town which many still believe to be part of Lancashire—through Hebden Bridge, Mytholmroyd, Luddendenfoot, Sowerby, Ripponden and Elland to Brighouse, Rastrick and Hipperholme, my constituency is a place of tremendous variety, rich in contrasts and where the urban meets the rural, the historic meets the modern and affluence meets significant disadvantage. The constituency played an early role in the development of industry, and evidence can be found in the towns and villages and in the many older mills that still stand in the remote valleys and narrow hillsides. Manufacturing, especially of textiles, has traditionally been Calder Valley's most important industry, but it has been in severe decline. Despite the decline in trade, a small number of mills continue in textiles and engineering today, while others have found alternative uses, as homes to small business units, visitor attractions and conversion to housing. The area has also moved with the times. The Lowfields industrial site at Elland is now home to many modern and innovative firms, while Todmorden is fast becoming a base for imaginative new uses of telecommunications and information technology. The majority of local firms are small, employing fewer than 50 people. Full-time workers earn less than the average for Yorkshire and many earn less than the threshold for low pay in Britain. I am pleased that Government policies have ensured that the higher than national and county average unemployment rate has started to reduce, but young people under 25, the long-term unemployed and the ethnic minorities are still caught in the trap. I welcome the Government's new deal proposals. Unemployment and low pay combine in the constituency to increase poverty, disadvantage and debt. One in four households are on benefit, and there is much concern about the effects of poverty and disadvantage on local crime rates. I hope that as a result of the attempt to alleviate the conditions that lead to anti-social behaviour, more crime will be prevented. As well as the problems faced by the constituency as a whole, the rural areas have extra problems. It has never been easy to make a living from an upland farm, but the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis has been a disaster for Calder Valley beef farmers and their families. There is also a shortage of rented accommodation. Not all farmers' children want to live and work on the farm, and many properties have been renovated and are now far beyond the price range of local youngsters. Calder Valley has a lower than average level of car ownership, and because of deregulation and privatisation, there are increasing limitations to public transport. There are no longer regular bus services to all the outlying villages. We depend heavily on our rail service, which desperately needs further investment, especially in the Elland and Brighouse areas, to develop better commuter services, expand employment opportunities and help regenerate the area. There is a fine thriving artistic tradition in Calder Valley; our brass bands are rightly famous. I was pleased to be able to follow in the tradition established by my predecessor, Sir Donald Thompson, and bring five local bands to play on the Terrace in June. Hebden Bridge is home to a four-week arts festival, which builds on the presence of the many writers and artists of all varieties who live and work in the area. Calder Valley is a unique and dense mix of the urban and the rural, with its people recently described in a book on the area as bloody-minded, proud, pernickety and independent"". It is a great privilege to represent such people. The hard-pressed local communities have in the past produced many people regarded as extremists—although they were usually not without humour. One favourite, Mr. Hanson, speaking at a Chartist rally in 1839, said: They preach Christ and a crust and non-resistance. Let the people go to those who preach Christ and a full belly; Christ and a good house; Christ and universal suffrage! It is not surprising that a constituency with such a long tradition of radicalism, non-conformity, Chartism and co-operation should have produced men and women  who were leaders of economic and social thinking. John Fielden, a Todmorden mill owner and radical Member of Parliament, successfully fought for a reduction in children's working hours to 10 a day. More recently, right hon. and hon. Members will recall the late Lord Houghton, who was the Labour Member for the Sowerby division for more than 25 years, and who is remembered with enormous respect and affection both in the House and in another place, as well as in the constituency. Douglas Houghton entered the House at the age of 50—and, while not wishing to give my age away, I consider him a role model in that respect. Before becoming a Member of Parliament, Douglas worked as a clerk in the local tax office, and in the first world war he fought in the trenches at Passchendaele—an experience which coloured his attitude to life and fed his determination to do whatever he could to make the world a better place. In 1922, Douglas Houghton founded the Inland Revenue Staff Federation and was its general secretary until 1960. During the second world war, he became a household name with his weekly BBC broadcast, ""Can I Help You?"" In the Wilson Government, he had an illustrious career as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and even as Minister without Portfolio. Finally, Douglas was chairman of the parliamentary Labour party, a role that he played with objectivity and fairness until 1974, when he went to another place as Lord Houghton of Sowerby. Until his death in 1997, Lord Houghton spoke and worked on a wide range of controversial issues including abortion, animal rights, war crimes and population and development. I have been surprised and delighted to find that I follow him not just as the hon. Member for what is now the Calder Valley constituency, but as a member of the all-party group on population, development and reproductive health, of which he was a founder member. Douglas Houghton was followed briefly by Max Madden, whose example of hard work and concern I shall do my best to follow. My most recent predecessor, Sir Donald Thompson, represented Calder Valley for 18 years. During that time, he won the affection of constituents of all parties for his unfailing courtesy, good humour and genuine and obvious love of Calder Valley and all things Yorkshire. He took news of the achievements and successes of the communities he loved to those down south who, he felt, sometimes failed to recognise them. Sir Donald was unwavering in his public loyalty and commitment to his party, and while that may have been criticised by those of us who did not share his views, I must pay tribute to the steadfastness which he believed to be natural, even if it was not shared by others. I do not believe that I have ever heard him publicly criticise his colleagues; nor did I ever hear him indulge in unfair or public personal attacks on any of his political opponents. Indeed, he always treated me with the utmost courtesy and respect. His political obituary was written prematurely on a number of occasions, but he proved to be a great survivor, reflecting his loyalty to the people and the area. In his own maiden speech in 1979, Sir Donald Thompson said that the people of Sowerby were seeking to remove head teachers and teachers who failed to teach children properly or to encourage children to reach   acceptable standards. It is ironic that it has taken 18 years and a new Labour Government to bring that about. Calderdale's education system gained unwelcome publicity last year, with often undeserved coverage of the Ridings school, situated in the neighbouring constituency of Halifax. There is a fine tradition of education in the area, from local village schools that are closely knit into the web of the community, through to the excellent and long-standing comprehensives such as Calder high school and Brooksbank school. I am proud that Calder High is the oldest purpose-built comprehensive in the country, and it continues to provide an excellent, open and challenging education to every child within its catchment area, whatever his or her academic ability. This debate is about access to justice and to legal aid. Many people in my constituency feel that they cannot access the current legal system—they find it barely civil and hardly justice. I welcome the reforms that will enable access for all, irrespective of income, and aid that is directed to those whose need is the most deserving. The reforms are undoubtedly challenging and radical, but they are necessary if we really want access for all to be a reality and not just a cheap policy gimmick. I welcome the extension of conditional fees, which will allow greater access to justice for those not eligible for legal aid, but I am concerned about the potential withdrawal of legal aid from money and damages claims, which could lead to the exclusion from the justice system of some of our most vulnerable people. For instance, many of the early asbestosis claims from Hebden Bridge in my constituency might not have succeeded under the proposed 75 per cent, success criterion. Indeed, other new, not proven industrial or medical claims may be jeopardised also. We must not exchange one exclusion for another. That feeling was eloquently and, dare I say it, comprehensively expressed by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Med way (Mr. Marshall-Andrews). I welcome the Minister's assurances that he will continue to consult widely on aspects of what must be the biggest and most welcome shake-up of the legal and justice system since the Labour Government's programme in 1949.
