gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The Minister of State mentioned the several occasions on which this House has expressed itself in one way or another   as being opposed to capital punishment. The hon. Gentleman who represented Swindon before I did was well known and respected for his beliefs in that respect. I approach the question as one who would dearly like tomorrow to vote with a clear conscience against capital punishment. I speak on this Motion because I fear that I may not be able to do that as a result of the way in which this matter is being dealt with. It is a matter on which feeling runs very high both inside and outside the House. Outside this House it is said that feeling is in favour of the return of capital punishment. I should have thought that in those circumstances it was of absolutely paramount importance that if this House were to decide to abolish capital punishment it should do so in circumstances in which all of us could assure the country in general and our constituents in particular that we had done so after weighing up all the evidence which reasonably could be made available and reaching a decision in a cool, calm and collected way after proper consideration of the facts. The evidence available, I suggest, is not as satisfactory as that which could be made available. Fortunately, the number of murders is so small that when split into categories the numbers have very little statistical significance. For that reason alone many of the totals do not have a great deal of significance when analysed. In many of them, however, the number of murders which are not cleared up is greater than the number which have been analysed. This again makes it very difficult to come to any conclusion from the figures. The overwhelming impression one gets from reading through the whole report is that an alteration in the definition between different types of homicide would result in very different conclusions being reached on the basis of the figures. I would go a little further than the Motion suggests. I should like to have the opportunity to analyse the full five years' figures. It would be possible to suspend the death penalty for a further period to give the House an opportunity to do that. Then we could have before us the figures for the full five years and we could examine a proper analysis of them. Abolition of capital punishment, if it comes about, will be only one of a number of liberalising measures in our penal code in the last few years, measures to which on the whole I give a welcome but measures which have been accompanied by a rise in crime, particularly in crimes of violence. It may be that liberalism is a luxury of a lawful society and that if we are prepared to liberalise when the number of crimes is rising we should do so only slowly and carefully taking one step at a time and being absolutely sure of our ground all the time. I think it rather unsatisfactory to attempt to do so on a set of figures which I believe to be inconclusive, but which can be reasonably argued to show that capital punishment retains a deterrence which many people think is absolutely unique. There is another factor. We have another generation, as we are always told, growing up, a generation which does not remember the Second World War and which perhaps takes for granted to a greater extent than we should like law and order and the fabric of our society. It is a generation some of whose members may believe that they can indulge in activities around the fringe of law and order without imperilling its substance. That is another reason why at this time we should proceed very carefully with liberal measures—which, I repeat, I personally welcome if I believe them to be well-founded. As I said, I should very much like to be able to vote for the abolition of capital punishment with a clear conscience. However, what I have referred to as inadequate evidence makes it very difficult for me—and certain others whom I know think as I do—to do so. For that reason I shall support the Motion in the Division Lobby.
