gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time I have spoken in the House, and I am sure the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North (Mr. Edward Davies), will forgive me if I do not follow him. I am sure too that he and the hon. Member for Wednesbury (Mr. S. N. Evans) will forgive be if I do not say very much about the Amendment. I feel that if I did so I should be bound to transgress and become controversial, and I understand that that would lose me the indulgence of the House of which I am in such grave need. Therefore, I shall confine myself to a few matters of special importance which I believe should receive our consideration when we are discussing an increase in agricultural production. I should like to start by thanking my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for the Isle of Ely (Major Legge-Bourke) for having made  such good use of his luck in the draw. I thank him partly, of course, because he has given one who has the honour to represent a constituency which is very largely agricultural a wonderful opportunity to make a maiden speech. I thank him too because he has framed his Motion in such wide terms that it will be difficult for me to go outside it, but if I should do that I hope very much that you, Mr. Speaker, will be kind enough to be lenient. But I thank my hon. and gallant Friend mainly because I am quite convinced—and I gather that this at least is not controversial—that our national well-being demands that our farming industry produces more and more of our food. If that is to be achieved, it is essential that as far as possible the farmer should be protected from uncertainty. Uncertainty is the bugbear of farming. There are many uncertainties from which the farmer cannot be protected—in particular the weather in this country—but there are uncertainties in respect of which Government can and should help. The first of these uncertainties is uncertainty about the prices which the farmer will receive for his product. The Government can help there by giving him a certainty about price, not just confined to the current year but spread over several years and providing him with the assurance that he can plan ahead. It is far too often forgotten that farming is, of its very nature, a long-term business. We in this country are still suffering from the effect on our sheep population of the disastrous winter of five years ago. I hope the Minister will give this certainty of prices over a period; but that does not mean he need necessarily fix named prices over that period. Would it not be possible to work out a ""farm cost of production index"" and then guarantee to the farmer a minimum price, of perhaps 2½ per cent., over the average cost of production, which he will receive for his product for a term of four or five years? I ask my right hon. Friend if he will consider that, because it will not only safeguard the Government against a fall in costs, but will also encourage efficiency in the farmer and encourage him to plan ahead. But certainty about prices is not enough. He must also be certain what   he is expected to produce. A farmer in my constituency said to me the other day, ""It does not matter so much what I am asked to produce; what matters is that I should know I shall not be asked to produce something quite different at a moment's notice."" I hope the emphasis will continue to be placed on the raising of livestock and the growing of feedingstuffs. The climate of this country as a whole is more suited to that than to the growing of cereals for human consumption. Certainly that is true of South Shropshire. I trust that the ploughing-up grant which my right hon. Friend has brought in will do its job in ensuring an increase in home production of feedingstuffs. But I think the mere fact that that grant had to be made so late in the season is proof of what I am saying. It was occasioned because of a sudden change in emphasis. If the farmer is to be given certainty of prices and of production policy, then the Government must take steps to see that he is not allowed to take undue advantage of the benefits which are conferred upon him. I am not worried in this connection about the farmer who makes big profits by high efficiency and hard work. I believe that profits are the right reward for efficiency and hard work, and if the profits are so big that some social evil may flow from them, I believe that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is well able to look after that. I am not worried either about the bad farmer who wastes his land. There are provisions in the Agriculture Act, 1947, which can look after him, though I think that those are perhaps somewhat too sparingly used at present. I am worried about the farmer who is just a little under average, the farmer—and there are many of his kind—who is just ticking over—not idle, but not really hard-working. What can be done to persuade him to increase his efforts? Local opinion can undoubtedly do a great deal, and so can fear of dispossession, particularly if the rules regarding dispossession are rather more rigidly enforced. But I myself prefer the carrot to the stick, and I believe that the way to persuade that sort of farmer to produce more is to let the incentive of profit play its full part. It will not work to the full unless the farmer is freed from various uncertainties. The chief of those uncertainties is the uncertainty about where the money is coming from, uncertainty about credit. It is often not sufficiently realised how much working capital the farmer requires and how slowly that working capital can be turned over. It is not an outside figure to say that it may cost £800 to finance the cropping of 10 acres of potatoes. Many farmers are worried today and are not inclined to plan ahead because they do not feel that they can be certain of getting the credit which they will require for working capital. ""After all,"" they say, ""the banks have been told to restrict credit."" The Chancellor—and our thanks are due to him for this—has made it clear that the banks should give full weight to the importance of agricultural production, especially where increased tillage area and increased food production are concerned. Although I believe the banks are paying heed to what the Chancellor has said, it can be seen that the seasonal increase in farm overdrafts, which normally takes place between November and this time of the year, is very much smaller than normal. It is not increased profits that have brought this about. Another thing—the farmers are leaning more and more on their suppliers for credit. A corn merchant in my part of the country told me the other day that he thought that the average farmer was requiring today twice the length of credit which he required in the not too distant past. I am certain that this question of agricultural credit for working capital is one which must engage the serious attention of my right hon. Friend. The last uncertainty about which I want, to speak is the uncertainty of the supply of labour. In this connection I want particularly to talk about the National Service call-up. I say at once that I would deplore the mass exemption of farm workers and farmers' sons from their obligation to do National Service. It would damage farming and I think it would harm the Services. It would damage farming because nothing could do more to create ill-feeling between the agricultural industry and other industries. It would harm the Services because not only would it decrease the numbers of their intake but it would seriously lower their quality. I believe that a relatively small change in the present regulations of the Ministry   of Labour regarding the deferment of agricultural workers would ensure that agriculture was not deprived of men whom it could not afford to spare for the period of their service so long as they return to farming when they came out of the Army. It is the danger of them not coming back that frightens me. So far as I can see, there is only one answer to that problem, and that is to improve rural amenities. It is my firm belief that there is no occupation which is more worth while or more likely to bring about happiness and health than work on a farm. But a great deal of that work has to be done on one's own. As we get older many of us may find that prospect more and more attractive, but the young man of 18 who for the first time finds the pleasures of communal life, may well be loath to leave that communal life and return to comparative solitude at the age of 20. As I say, I believe the only way to solve the problem is to improve rural amenities. In the first place, we must ensure that adequate wages are paid and that the terms of service are satisfactory. Above all, the problem of rural housing must be faced. I welcome the provisions of the Measure introduced by the Minister of Housing and Local Government, and I should like to bring to his notice the position of local authorities and other people in remote areas where the distance which the builders and materials have to be carried add very considerably to the cost of the houses. Those are the four uncertainties to which I wish to refer; the uncertainty of price, of policy, of credit and of labour. I believe that all those uncertainties can be dispelled by Government action. They must be so dispelled if we are to ensure the increase in home production which is essential for economic and strategic reasons. But there is another and perhaps even more compelling reason for making our agriculture flourish. If a man is cut off from nature; if he begins to think that food is not something that has to be grown but just something that can be bought in a shop; if he forgets that the sunshine and the rain, the summer and the winter, are vital influences in his life, over which neither he nor any other man can have any control; if he forgets that,  I think he will inevitably lose his sense of proportion and his sense of values. What is true of the man is true of the nation. May we never lose touch with the truest realities, which we will surely do if we fail to cultivate our garden.
