gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech. My predecessor, Spencer Le Marchant, represented High Peak for many years. He was a great character in the House and I know that he was well liked and respected on both sides as well as in his constituency. His contribution to the House was far greater than that recorded in Hansard. He served on numerous Committees and as a Whip for many years. As a result he was prevented from contributing to debate as often as he and the House would have liked. The House is poorer for his departure because of ill-health. I am sure that all hon. Members would want me to wish him a full and speedy recovery. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I shall briefly follow the traditions of the House before turning to an issue that I believe to be of great importance. I am greatly honoured to represent High Peak which, though a beautiful constituency, has lately suffered some severe problems. It is my job to fight for them. I know that it is traditional not to be controversial in a maiden speech, so although I feel strongly about the issue that I wish to raise I shall try not to strain the tradition to its limits. This issue first came to my attention during May when I was a candidate at the general election. People living in Glossop complained that they were finding it difficult to get doctors at night and weekends. They were usually transferred to deputising services and frequently had to wait up to four and a half hours for a doctor, even for serious cases. They claimed that sometimes they were given poor diagnoses, completely at variance with those given by their own general practitioners on the following day. I raised the matter with my hon. and learned Friend the Minister for Health and he visited my constituency and listened to complaints. I think that he was shocked by what he heard, and he offered to investigate the matter. In June The Sunday Times published reports of similar problems in London, and it became clear that it was a national  problem. During June and July I pressed my hon. and learned Friend for action, and in July I asked for an inquiry into the use of deputising services. My hon. and learned Friend said that he would set up an inquiry through the family practitioner committees. I was not entirely happy with that because those committees already monitor and control the deputising services. Unless it was to be merely a first step, it was almost like asking them if they were doing their jobs properly—a question to which we could confidently expect the reply ""Yes, Minister"". I pressed my hon. and learned Friend further and asked for an independent body to be established to monitor and control the use of deputising services. I suggested that several laws should be introduced to require doctors in deputising services to have the same qualifications as general practitioners. They should have at least six months' GP training or its equivalent. I felt that the law should limit the number of hours that they worked in view of the allegations that some doctors from deputising services worked excessive hours to the point where no one could be confident that they could do the job properly. My hon. and learned Friend's reply to my requests was, in brief, ""No."" Again, I was not happy and during the recess I decided to find out from inside the system what had been happening. I have been much helped by honourable people in the system who have provided me with inside information and papers. I now have extensive evidence covering a conurbation with a population second only to greater London. It includes Manchester, Stockport, Salford, Rochdale, Bury, Oldham, Tameside and also Glossop which is in my constituency. I have clear evidence of excessive use of deputising services by a significant number of doctors. I have evidence that many group practices are using such services every night and every weekend, contrary to the code of practice. Most alarming, I have evidence that the requirement that professional advisory committees should be present at the interviews of all deputy doctors has not been carried out, other than when specifically requested by the deputising services. All this is contrary to the code of practice. All this evidence I have laid before my hon. and learned Friend the Minister. I can go so far as to say that in some areas no monitoring has been carried out until recently. In fact, in some areas no system for monitoring exists. The doctors ask for permission to use a deputising service for a few nights a week. Having got that permission they can then phone the deputising service and extend cover to every night and every weekend. No checks of any kind are made. In one area the family practitioner committee seeks to control the use of deputising services by imposing a limit of not more than 20 calls per month which may be carried out by deputies. I checked up and discovered that, contrary to the belief that people call doctors out for every minor ailment, the average number of night calls is less than one call per doctor, per week, in all the areas that I have mentioned: that is less than four calls a month. The control system allows for 20 per month which enables them, five times over, to use the deputising service every night and every weekend contrary to the code of practice. In Glossop and other areas I have asked for data on response times—how long doctors from the deputy service take to get to each patient. I was told that the   family practitioner committee had asked for the same data but that they had not been forthcoming. What a control system! I would now like to turn to what needs to be done. I am not saying that deputising services do not have a useful function. I am not saying that there are not many fine doctors doing a good job, working hard and looking after their patients. What I am saying is that some doctors are abusing the system and that the present system of monitoring and control is inadequate. My hon. and learned Friend has ample evidence that the present system of monitoring and control has failed. He has ample evidence to take action now. The professional bodies that monitor the system are composed almost entirely of doctors and are sometimes composed entirely of doctors. Moreover, they are composed of doctors who themselves make extensive use of the deputising services and, in some cases, have shares in them. Their leisure and sometimes their income must conflict with their duty to monitor and control. We need an independent body, dominated by the public, to monitor and control the use of deputising services. We need a study group to recommend how to monitor and control as it is clear from my evidence that in many areas it is not known how to carry out those functions. We need a standard national system, reporting to an independent body. I am afraid that we also need a new code of practice which gives clear guidelines as the present code is unbelievably vague and woolly. It says that doctors should not make excessive use of deputising services, but it does not define what is regarded as ""excessive"". Lastly, we should require by law that all deputies to be employed by deputising services should have the same qualifications required of any GP. They should have at least six months experience as a GP or the equivalent, and we should limit the number of hours that they can work. I ask my hon. and learned Friend the Minister to consider those proposals so that anyone in Britain who has the misfortune to be ill at night or at a weekend can be sure to receive a speedy visit from a properly qualified doctor. Nothing less will do.
