gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As the newly elected Member for Welwyn and Hatfield, I am conscious that my election has resulted in the absence from the House of a well-known personality, Mrs. Helene Hayman. She was a unique Member of Parliament, being both the youngest lady Member and the youngest mother in this place. I am sure that many hon. Members on both sides of the Chamber will miss her presence in the Palace of Westminster. My predecessor had the privilege, which I now enjoy, of representing a unique constituency. It is the only one in Britain containing a district authority covering two new towns. The first is Welwyn Garden City, which was planned and developed after the First World War. It was one of the pioneers of its sort. The second one, Hatfield, has grown up more rapidly since the Second World War alongside its older and historic counterpart, which is known today as Old Hatfield. My constituency is fortunate in having many attractive residential areas and villages. It contains lovely tracts of unspoilt Hertfordshire countryside, river valleys, farmland and woods. Welwyn and Hatfield has a diversity of industry ranging from aerospace to pharmaceuticals and chemicals, from printing to light engineering, from food manufacture to a multiplicity of small businesses, and all parts of it contribute to the wealth of the district. Its communications are fast, its shopping facilities are plentiful and its leisure provisions are outstanding. There is a sense of both our past, crowned perhaps by Hatfield House, and of our future, encouraged by good schools and a forward-looking polytechnic. There is a feeling of civic pride in our unique contribution to life in Hertfordshire. There is a feeling of civic responsibility, which the record turnout of voters, 85 per cent., clearly showed. There was nothing unique about the outcome of the vote in my constituency, for the electors clearly endorsed a way of life based upon freedom. The country now has the opportunity to benefit from a Government who understand that freedom is the essence of what every person wants. Every person is important in our view. Our policies are about people, they are designed for people and  they understand people both here and abroad. Freedom embraces many facets. There is freedom of the individual, freedom to pursue his or her own life in his or her own way, not having a straitjacket imposed as some would desire. There is freedom under the law, a constitutional freedom which ensures that people living their own lives do so in a manner which prevents harm to others, not an instrument of the State as some would desire. There is freedom of equal opportunity, never to be confused with freedom to be unequal, and to be different, not a levelling down to the lowest common denominator as some would desire. There is freedom for enterprise and for business which creates prosperity and advancement through competition, not State-controlled and limited as some would desire. There is freedom of choice, be it in housing, education or hospital treatment, not restriction to one choice and one choice only as some would desire. There is the freedom of our country as a bastion of the free world, not a prey to Marxist pressure from within and without as some would desire. Her Majesty's new Government have as their basis a fundamental belief in the principle of freedom. I have every confidence that their policies will clearly be seen to bear that out. However, in a world growing more hostile, the principle of freedom must be safeguarded not only on these shores but throughout the Western world it true civilisation it to be maintained. It becomes increasingly evident that there is a need to show by example, by diplomacy and by due attention to the importance of foreign policy that there is a true and successful alternative to the creeping forces of Marxism in all parts of the globe. The case for democracy and the Western way of life must be presented, argued and supported. It must not be allowed to fall by default, inaction and incapacity. Our way of life and the fundamental concept of freedom reflect the commonsense attitudes of our country. The philosophy of common sense is the acceptance of the primary beliefs of mankind as the ultimate criterion of truth. Normal understanding, good practical sense in everyday affairs, and the general feeling of the community are all natural   examples of that, again both here and abroad. Common sense believes not in change for change's sake but only in orderly change that benefits us all. It listens to the instinctive wisdom of the British people. It applauds personal and national pride because it still runs deep. It is profoundly conscious that human nature is the most powerful force in society. Common sense stands for stability, for responsibility, for standards, for choice and for self-fulfilment. It stands for the people of Britain. Her Majesty's new Government have a deep-rooted understanding of the commonsense views of our countrymen, but it is an approach that must be taken to a far wider audience for it to appreciate if our free world is not to shrink the faster from the shadows of oppression. Thus, the driving force of our foreign policy must be to bring to international counsels the knowledge and evidence that there is a better way of life than our foes will permit. We can show by our success in the United Kingdom over the next five years, and much longer, what benefits a nation can enjoy, so that other countries and other peoples can have hope rather than despair. The first Elizabethan age can be said to have begun in my constituency, for under an oak tree in Hatfield Park the young princess learnt that she had become Queen. I am certain that my constituency will have helped to ensure that the second Elizabethan age will proceed with greater glory. Her Majesty now has a Government who are dedicated to ensuring the recovery of the nation's prestige and its positive influence abroad.
