gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I agreed with some of the remarks which were made by the hon. and gallant Member for the Isle of Ely (Major Legge-Bourke) and disagreed with others, but today I am supposed to be non-controversial and I had better not refer to individual remarks or speeches by any other hon. Member. I share the feeling of another new Member who said that he had nothing uncontroversial to say in this House. If I succeed in avoiding provocation of hon. Members opposite, I suppose it is likely that I shall only provoke my hon. Friends instead. The first positive suggestion I wish to make is that we should be extra careful in this topic of the Middle East to keep in very close consultation with other member countries of the Commonwealth. We in this country and other Western countries have more opportunity to be acquainted with the Israeli point of view. India, Pakistan, and other countries with considerable numbers of Moslems living in them have more opportunity to hear the Arab case. It does appear to me that if our Commonwealth is in very close consultation together it might be in a position to evolve a very fairly balanced view as between the interests of both  sides in this dispute between Israel and her neighbours. I think that has a relevance to the Bagdad Pact. Some members of the Commonwealth are outside the Pact and others are in it. I do not think that Pact is a conception to which we can legitimately object, but I do not think Britain is in a very good position to take a prominent initiative in trying to persuade other countries to join the Pact. That could be more appropriately done by and would be much easier for countries like Pakistan, Iraq, Turkey, and Persia—countries which are close to the spot and are in touch with modern trends of opinion and sentiment in that part of the world. It is more appropriate that they should take a lead in that sort of development and in any attempt to persuade other countries of the possibility of joining that Pact. I want also to suggest that we should try not only to keep in touch with the Commonwealth but also with a much wider circle of other nations. I think this is very much a subject into which we should try to draw the United Nations to a greater extent. I was glad to hear in the speech of the Foreign Secretary last week that he seems to be moving a little more in that direction. From the speech of the Minister of State this afternoon, it seemed that there are to be consultations with the Secretary-General in order to try to increase United Nations participation. I hope it will be possible for this country to take the initiative in persuading the Security Council to strengthen the observers along the frontier, irrespective of whether General Burns advises in favour or against. It is not really fair to impose on public servants—civil servants, or military servants—the burden of expressing a policy opinion on a political question such as whether it is desirable to strengthen those observers or not. I hope the suggestion will not be dropped but will be examined very thoroughly to see whether it is possible to establish a United Nations force in some suitable part of the district, perhaps near the border between Israel and Egypt, as has been suggested. In any strengthening of United Nations action in the Middle East, we have to remember that these problems are not going to be over in a month or two, or   a year or two, but probably will last for a decade or two or more. We might as well look at the longer run solution as well as tackling the immediate problem. I hope that it will be possible to build United Nations participation, which itself would cover us against a great deal of criticism for whatever part we may have to take. If United Nations decisions require enforcement and military power in that part of the world., no doubt in the near future that would fall largely on Britain as it fell largely on America in Korea to provide the necessary forces. We would be in a much better position to provide that power in that part of the world if first we had the authority of the United Nations behind us in whatever was being done. It is worth looking back for a moment over the pre-war period of the League of Nations. During its first ten years the League of Nations was fairly well utilised and did a great deal of useful work. In its second decade the enthusiasm fell away and the idealism evaporated. The League was neglected and each nation fell back on policies more similar to those which have been advocated by the hon. and gallant Member for the Isle of Ely. Each nation felt that it was sufficient just to think of its own rather immediate national interests; and in the pursuit of policies based on that narrower consideration it could not of course get so much co-operation from other nations whose national interests might be different, so that gradually the world fell to pieces until we had the Second World War. That kind of realism was not quite so realistic as it was held out to be by its initiators. I hope that in this second decade of the United Nations we are not going to repeat that sorry story.
