gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a new Member in the House, I begin by saying that I am pleased and proud to represent the electors of Islington, South and Finsbury. I am particularly delighted to place it on record that that constituency and the borough of which it is part have returned to their political allegiance after a temporarily imposed period of political uncertainty. As many hon. Members will know, my constituency lies only four miles from the House, yet it contains within it extremes of wealth and poverty in as stark a contrast as will be found anywhere in Britain. It ranges from the leafy roads which are now full of reporters from The Guardian and Channel 4 producers to the crumbling staircases of decaying council estates and the overcrowded basement rooms of private landlord controlled houses. In my constituency one adult in four is unemployed. Two thirds of school leavers have no chance whatever of finding permanent employment and on our council estates the crime detection rate for burglaries and break-ins is 2 per cent. That is the background from which I come to the House. It is customary for a new Member to pay tribute to his predecessor. However, I fear that I must depart from that tradition. George Cunningham and I fought each other in the election and it would be hypocritical of me to claim that I was anything other than delighted by the result. However, I shall say—and hon. Members will know this better than I — that George Cunningham was a skilled, supremely effective and, at times, deadly parliamentary operator. As his successor, I want to apply such skills in my constituent's interests and to the cause of Socialism for which they sent me here to fight. The main subject of debate today is the welfare state — that network of provision upon which millions of British people depend for their livelihood which has been so painstakingly built up over the past 40 years. A key element of that provision which has not been discussed in great detail yet tonight and which was touched on in the debate last Thursday, but so briefly that I shall do so again, is the right for everyone to have a decent home at a price that they can afford. I have spent most of the past two years chairing my borough's housing committee, and as a result I am acutely aware that some 60 per cent. of my constituents live in council housing and are dependent on the council for their welfare and their home. We have 7,000 people on the waiting list, 8,000 people on the transfer list, 1,500 people reporting as homeless each year and 75 families a week joining the waiting list. It is with their interests in mind that I have looked at the Gracious Speech and I have seen in it nothing with which to comfort them. The Gracious Speech has, first, a tired reiteration of the desire to limit public expenditure. That means that local authorities will not be given sufficient housing investment funds to renovate old estates and to build new housing to rent to those in need. It means also that there will be no certainty for investment and housing in future years and that will mean that local authorities will continue as they have over the past few years to fail to meet the targets which the Government, supposedly, give them. Secondly, there is no guidance in the Queen's Speech on rent levels. It says a lot about rates and excoriates Labour local authorities for high rate increases. However, it says nothing about the Government's record of increasing rents far beyond the rate of inflation over the past four years. The Government and Conservative Members might do well to consider some proposals for rent capping as well as for rate capping. Thirdly, we are promised—we were promised by the Prime Minister at the beginning of the debate on the Gracious Speech—that the mortgage tax relief threshold will rise from £25,000 to £30,000. That is wonderful if one can afford a mortgage of £30,000. In my constituency, where one person in four is unemployed and where average earnings are far below the national average, precious few people can afford such mortgages. What the proposal also ignores is the gross unfairness and imbalance of a system that gives tax incentives for owner-occupation but no fiscal advantage at all for people who rent. Fourthly, there are provisions for the extension of the right-to-buy legislation. For tenants living on decaying council estates the right to buy is frankly a joke. It is no joke for those on the estates waiting to move into better quality accommodation. It is precisely that better quality accommodation that is literally being sold down the drain by the Government's right-to-buy legislation. In short, the Government, in a headlong rush to protect, promote and espouse home ownership and home ownership alone, have forgotten and ignored the cause of those who can only rent or want to rent their accommodation. I warn Conservative Members, on behalf of my constituents, that I shall not forget and ignore the interests of those people. One of the most distinguished of my constituents, had he now been alive, would have been Eric Blair who wrote under the name of George Orwell. He had a profound belief in the decency of ordinary working people and a smouldering anger at the injustice and oppression which  they suffered. That smouldering anger is needed more now than it ever has been. I warn Conservative Members that it will come consistently in the coming years from my colleagues and me on the Labour Benches.
