gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to ask the indulgence of the House in making my maiden speech. Since the formation of the constituency in 1918, King's Lynn has usually been represented by a member of the governing party. In expressing my delight that the electorate there has continued this custom, albeit by a small majority, I must nevertheless pay tribute to my immediate predecessor, Mr. Derek Page. Hon. Members opposite at least will know that he enjoyed the considerable respect and affection of a large number of his constituents. I hope that the House will also allow me on this occasion to refer briefly to another former Member, Denys Bullard, who represented South-West Norfolk from 1951 to 1955, and King's Lynn from 1959 to 1964. I am sure that the House will remember with pleasure Denys Bullard's rich contributions to agriculture debates in particular, and wish him well. The King's Lynn constituency has many features worthy of remark not least the town itself, with its 1,000-year old port and its medieval, Elizabethan and Georgian architecture, which reflect the wealth of the port throughout the ages. Primarily a market town, King's Lynn is now an expanding town, having an overspill agreement with the Greater London Council and offering a first-class environment for industrial expansion. The marshland area of the constituency is notable because almost all of it was reclaimed from the sea by Dutch engineers in the 17th and 18th centuries. Its unique flat landscape and fertile soils, divided by waterways and overlooked by the great wool churches, is the home of some of Britain's finest and most independent horticulturalists, fruit growers and small farmers. To the north of Lynn, around the coast, with its marshes and superb sand beaches, lie the resorts of Hunstanton and Brancaster which, together with numerous other coastal villages, are popular centres for family holidays, a wide range of outside recreation and, increasingly, for retirement. Inland to the north and east of Lynn are some of the huge agricultural and sporting estates where, in the 18th and 19th centuries, British agricultural systems were the envy of the world. The tradition of large-scale and scientific agriculture is still very much alive today. No description of the constituency would be complete without reference to the royal residence at Sandringham and to William Kent's masterpiece at Houghton, built for Sir Robert Walpole as the country home of the Cabinet of the day. Our first Prime Minister had his political critics, but few could deny that this superb building is a fine memorial and a national treasure. Sir Robert Walpole was first elected to represent King's Lynn in 1701, and   his family was the main political force in West Norfolk for many generations. Indeed, at one time there were five parliamentary seats in the family's gift in my present constituency. However, in Norfolk we prefer to remember the Walpoles for their motto, ""Say what you think"", which, though unfashionable in some political circles today, is the first duty of any Member of the House who represents a constituency in Norfolk. I am conscious that there are dangers in following that advice in speaking on the subject which we are debating today, but I hope that the House will respect my motives for doing so. I have no financial interests in Africa, but I have enjoyed the privilege of both living in Kenya and travelling widely in East and Central Africa. I still speak some Swahili and I have maintained and developed private friendships with Africans over nearly 20 years. I congratulate my right hon. Friend on his determination that our relationship with friends in Africa should be based upon the firm foundations of the law. I hope that this policy will lead to fewer misunderstandings. The terms of the Motion raise three important points—first, whether there is a legal obligation on the United Kingdom to supply certain replacements and spares under the sea routes agreement; second, whether there is a legal obligation to supply further arms; and third, whether it is now the intention of the Government at some point in the future to supply further arms to the South African Government. On the first two points it is clear—or at least, it was reasonably clear until we had the legal discussion earlier—that Britain's legal obligations under the Sea Routes Agreement, summarised in paragraphs 51 and 52 of the White Paper, require her to supply certain replacements and spares. But it is clear from paragraph 59 that there is no … general and continuing legal obligation on Her Majesty's Government to permit the supply of arms to the South African Government. As a layman, I accept those views of the Law Officers in respect of this obligation. I ask my right hon. Friend, in winding up for the Government, to confirm that he accepts all the legal advice  set out in the White Paper and that he will undertake to ensure that the South African Government meet in full her legal commitments, especially those relating to employment in the naval base agreement. Will he also ask the Attorney-General to report to the House on the legal status of the South African police presently supporting the rebellion against the Crown by the illegal régime in Rhodesia? lf, as I suspect, their presence in defiance of the wishes of Her Majesty's Government is illegal, will my right hon. Friend insist that they are withdrawn so that the legal niceties are observed in every aspect of our relationship with South Africa? If the Government will accept this advice, I am sure that it will go some way to restoring the Commonwealth's confidence in Britain's integrity and purpose. Turning to the third question, I shall now consider the wisdom of exceeding our legal obligations and supplying further arms to South Africa. Undoubtedly such a course of action would cause irreparable damage to the Commonwealth and would undermine our still considerable influence in the third world. The adverse effect on our short and long-term economic interests and the threat to the security of British expatriates are too awful to contemplate. Communism would gain its greatest boost since Suez. Is the marginal strengthening of our bilateral defence capability really worth all this? Nevertheless, the rapidly increasing presence of Soviet ships obviously is a threat to the freedom of the seas which cannot be ignored. But, can, or indeed should, Britain and South Africa together assume the total responsibility for the defence of the Indian Ocean and the South Atlantic? To accent this proposition would be to condemn the British taxpayer to paying for forces on an imperialistic scale and would be to the detriment of many of our other interests throughout the continent of Africa. Surely long-term and effective defence can be provided on this scale only by an alliance with the United States of America or between all the friendly nations which depend upon the sea routes through these areas and whose countries are vulnerable to attack from the sea. The Government have already reconised the value of multilateral cooperation in the Far East. I urge the   Government to delay any move to increase the scale of our bilateral cooperation with South Africa until much greater thought has been given to the alternatives. The issues underlying the debate have serious and long-term implications for Britain's interests. Rather than reacting quite so quickly to pressure from the South African Government, surely we ought to make a more catholic assessment of where our interests really lie. We must raise our sights to consider the prospect of real partnership with Africans in their desire for equal rights and economic expansion. If we will support them, the ties of language and affection can ensure our access to a vast expanding market for both investment and trade which may yet be vital to our own economy. We should also remember that Communism is as alien to Islam and to the African tribal tradition as it is to us. It flourishes in Egypt, not through lack of British arms, but because Britain was slow to accommodate the aspirations of the Egyptian people. One is entitled to ask: will Britain ever learn?
