gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time that I have had the honour of addressing the House. I realise that this is an important debate, and that there may be concealed behind the customary kindness and courtesy of hon. Members some impatience that the  debate should drift temporarily into the still waters of a maiden speech, but, nevertheless, I ask the House to show the tolerance that I have no doubt it possesses to me. Taking the words on the Order Paper at their face value, I agree with both the Motion and the Amendment. Perhaps this is because I am unversed in the nice subtleties of this House, but the words of the Motion seem to me to be quite acceptable and do not direct the Government to vote in any specific way at the United Nations. To my mind, the passing of the Motion would not necessarily alter the Government's attitude in any way, but I find it strange that the Opposition should not feel able to accept the Amendment. Perhaps it is because I do not appreciate the subtleties of the matter, but one could hardly expect that hon. Members opposite would disapprove of the efforts of the Government to promote racial tolerance. The debate goes wider than South Africa. There is no mention of South Africa on the Order Paper. I should like to put two general arguments which seem to me to be consistently underrated. The first concerns the kind of unpopular action needed to safeguard the sort of ideals mentioned on the Order Paper. The second is the need for tolerance in our approach to these sentiments. I disapprove whole-heartedly of racial intolerance or discrimination. Like, I imagine, most hon. Members, I consider that I have no racial prejudices whatsoever, but I am continually made aware of how little that tolerance costs. It involves me in no sacrifice or inconvenience, but there are many in this country from whom a great deal of sacrifice is required if they are to show that tolerance. They fear that their jobs or homes may be threatened. Three years ago, in the course of my work, I had to show on a B.B.C. feature that some branches of the National Union of Railwaymen were preventing coloured workers from taking jobs as porters that lay vacant. It was right to do that because this was a mean piece of discrimination, but, from the angry letters which I received from railwaymen, it was made clear to me that they felt that the bargaining power of their union and the status of their jobs were threatened. When they said to me,   ""It is all very well for you"", I took their point. There is a happier story to tell in my own constituency, where 1,000 West Indians have been absorbed quite peaceably into the Ladywell Ward of North Lewisham. There has been no trouble —certainly no trouble of the Notting Hill variety. But that has involved some sacrifice on the part of the people there. In one or two cases, West Indians with very different customs have moved into a house, perhaps twelve people to a house, with the result that the value of the next door house for which, perhaps, a man has saved all his working life has been almost halved overnight. In these circumstances, it is a great deal harder to be tolerant than if one is merely writing or speaking about the subject. I feel that it is against this background, realising something of what it means, that one should discuss this subject. I think that more harm than good is done if those with nothing to lose demand racial tolerance from others at pistol point, so to speak. That sometimes seems to be the attitude of hon. Members opposite. The hon. Member for Eton and Slough (Mr. Brockway) twice last year introduced a Bill to make any racial discrimination in this country punishable by law. I think that this suggestion was again put forward this afternoon by the Front Bench opposite —[An HON. MEMBER: ""Give way.""] I am willing to give way, but I hope that I have not misrepresented the hon. Member. Much as I respect the attitude behind the Bill, I personally feel that these matters are better not dealt with by legislation. In the end, such a measure in this country would have the effect of hardening attitudes and perhaps increasing the sum of bitterness and conflict. It is in our overseas policy that this pistol-point approach to tolerance carries most danger. In ""The Plural Societies,"" a pamphlet published by the Labour Party two or three years ago, it was said that a Labour Government would order the abolition of all statutory and administrative forms of racial discrimination throughout the Colonies. That is an admirable intention to which one would obviously subscribe, but to say that it should be done overnight shows a lack  of sensitivity to the very real human problems that sometimes underlie those forms of discrimination. I spent a day at a working man's and artisan's club in Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia, earlier this year. Many of the views which I heard expressed there were alarmingly intolerant. They seemed to me to be prejudiced and racialist. But most of these people worked in jobs which had previously been protected for Europeans and which no Africans were able to obtain. Some of them had lived there from birth, some had gone out from this country since the war. Those who had gone out could hardly know what the future held for them, and they felt that in a way the terms of their contract were being altered. I could feel no sympathy for their views, but one must have sympathy and understanding for them. It is wrong that these forms of discrimination should exist, but in their abolition one must take into account the suffering that may be caused to some of the Europeans. Some Europeans in that club were disturbed and some were angry at the new law which would make it necessary for unions to be multi-racial. They felt that they were seriously threatened. I feel that our job is to encourage and persuade and sometimes to push such people into more tolerant attitudes. We must always make it clear that time is short if real partnership is to be established. But what does harm is for Europeans in Southern Rhodesia, who work extremely hard—they work harder than people in this country —and who feel that they are building a nation to be spoken of in Britain as if they were crooks. It is damaging if they feel that we, comfortably off in Britain, have no conception of their problems or sympathy with them. I feel that they are being made to move in the right direction, and I say that we should be tolerant in the demands that we issue for tolerance. My second point is that the job of ensuring the rights of minorities leads to very unpopular measures. If, in the end, we are to ensure even a fair deal for Europeans in Central Africa, or for Asians in East Africa, we shall be involved in difficult and often, apparently, illiberal measures. Those who campaign for the ideals on the Order Paper must   be prepared to back up the unpleasant steps sometimes necessary for their implementation. I consider that the Sudan is a case in point. I spent the first few years of my life in the Sudan. My father was in the Sudan Political Service. If I speak on this topic with a little more heat than is customary in a maiden speech, I hope that I shall be forgiven. Very little was heard, particularly from hon. Members opposite, at the time the Sudan was being given independence, and in the years before. about the African minority in Southern Sudan. They had suffered slavery before Britain arrived in the Sudan, and it was clear, I think, in the years before independence, that they were in grave danger from the Arab majority. I think that the Government failed to protect that minority. I am sure that very few of those who normally feel strongly against racial discrimination were there to stand up and say, ""We will hold on in the Sudan for at least a year or two."" It might have meant illiberal and authoritarian measures. It might even have meant an emergency situation. Surely, however, it would have been worth while if, in the end, we had been able to guarantee those human rights to a minority which had been oppressed. There are, of course, other examples. The protection of the Turkish minority in Cyprus is one. As a maiden speaker, I must obviously concede that many hon. Members opposite saw different issues involved. But I wonder who has these ideals more at heart, those who ask that Jomo Kenyatta should be released or those who feel that he should still be further detained? I feel that it is those who are in favour of his detention. Those who deplore racial discrimination must be aware that it will not always land them on the easy, liberal side of an argument, but, very often, in the camp that temporarily it might be fashionable to look upon as illiberal and authoritarian. I suppose that it would be conceded now that the argument in our colonial possessions is over, to quote a topical phrase, ""means, not ends"". There is no disagreement about where we are heading finally in Central or East Africa. It is to multi-racial States in which all races have equality. In South Africa,  the ends are different. The objectives are very different. The ideal of the South African Government is not multiracial, but separate States. When talking to an Afrikaans professor in one of their universities one cannot help but feel that apartheid, in theory, is an excellent, admirable and ethical solution. Alexander Steward, in his ably reasoned book, ""You are wrong, Father Huddleston"", represents the ideal by a little diagram. He portrays the present situation as two rectangles, one on top of the other, a white on top of a black. The ideal at which apartheid is aiming is two rectangles, separate but side by side, one white, one black. On my own earlier argument for tolerance, one obviously must have a great deal of sympathy for the South African Europeans. History has placed them in an appalling position. They are a large minority. They have to contend not only with a conflict between black and white, but a conflict between the two European races. Having said all that, however, it is clear that apartheid is no longer believed in even by the leaders in South Africa, simply because it is totally unworkable. Since the rejection by the South African Government of the Tomlinson Report, which laid down the minimal requirements to develop industrially and agriculturally the native reserves, apartheid no longer has the support even of those who pretend to implement it. At the same time, measures are being stepped up under the pretence of apartheid. From the universities, Africans, Asians and coloureds are slowly being expelled. For the Indians, it not only means that they are denied all higher education but under the Group Areas Act their businesses and their homes are being transferred to barren strips of veldt. It is an exaggeration still to compare the plight of say, the Indians with that of the Jews in Hitler's Germany, because they are not subjected to the same violence. But more and more force is being required every year from the South African Government to implement their policies. Already, there is mounting evidence to suggest that the pass laws are being used to supply slave labour, or something akin to it, to farmers who are short of African labour. I will not rehearse the facts   about South Africa that are fairly well known in this House. The question obviously, is: what should this country do? I believe, like the right hon. Member for West Bromwich (Mr. Dugdale), that there are separate actions for the Government and for the public. Even the Observer yesterday, I was glad to see, recognised that there are many things that the public should do which are not profitable for the Government. I believe that the public in this country should do all it can to help the victims of oppression and to show our disapproval of what is going on in South Africa. I cannot support the boycott proposition, although I have a great deal of sympathy with it, It seems to me that this is a poor principle, although it might shake the Government and persuade one or two businessmen to be more vocal in their opposition. It is true to say that it would do harm immediately to the victims, but so does a strike against a genuine grievance. The real argument against the boycott is that it is wrong in principle to interfere with trade in this way. Once one starts, where does one stop? It makes no sense to stop buying sherry from South Africa and to buy it from Portugal or Spain, which are hardly regarded as bastions of liberalism. Should we stop buying Russian vodka? Trade is a vehicle for ideas and one should firmly hold to the principle that we should trade—and, indeed, foster more trade—with countries with whose policies we disagree. I agree, however, with the right hon. Member for West Bromwich about sport and the arts. The Campaign against Racial Discrimination in Sport is doing a useful job. It is merely trying to implement the Olympic declaration, which states that no discrimination should be allowed against any country or person on grounds of race, colour, religion or politics. Some notable triumphs have been secured. Already, the perhaps humbler game of table tennis has been brought on to this basis and the campaign has succeeded in extracting from the South African Olympic Association a promise that its team that goes to the Olympics next year will be a mixed one. This is something that should have the support of every sportsman in this country. I, too, would be glad to see the M.C.C. abiding by this elementary principle. It is  not, of course, binding upon the M.C.C., but I feel sure it is widely accepted throughout all sports, and I should like to see the M.C.C. refuse to play South Africa unless it has a multi-racial team. I think that this sporting effort might have more success than, perhaps, may be thought likely, because Europeans in South Africa are extremely interested in and affected by sports. Indeed, I think that they might be more affected by this than by votes in the United Nations. On the question of the Government's attitude, I know that the progressives, the new Progressive Party in South Africa and many others who have sympathy with them, are anxious about the Prime Minister's visit. They feel that pictures taken of him with the South African Prime Minister may give a wrong impression. They feel that the net effect of his visit may be to make the job of the moderates in South Africa harder. I am glad, though, that he is going. I am quite sure that the Prime Minister is aware of the delicacy of the situation, and I think that he has good reason to hope that from his talks with the South African Prime Minister a change of attitude could be expected. I am sure that he is right, before he goes to those talks, to show some reserve in what he says on the subject in public. I believe, however, that the British Government may soon have to decide how much we should be inhibited by our desire to keep South Africa in the Commonwealth. Of course, we want South Africa in the Commonwealth. It is better for the Africans, and it is better for everybody else, that South Africa should be in the Commonwealth, but that, I hope, will not lead us to seem to sit on the fence on so many occasions. It is, to me, hard to conceive that we should vote in the United Nations with South Africa. I concede that Article II (7) of the Charter clearly says that there should be no interference in the internal affairs of member countries. There is, of course, great argument about the definition of two or three words in that statement. Both Labour and Conservative Governments have been consistent on this, and it seems to me that the line we have taken is a very reasonable one, but are we quite certain that in the situation of today that battle has not been lost?   Nearly every country now considers that that Article means something else. They may be wrong. I am not sure that it will make the United Nations a better place if the internal affairs of every country are to be discussed—if the internal affairs of Ghana or Pakistan, or whichever country happens to be in the news at the moment, are to be discussed —but it seems to me that Article II (7) is no longer any protection against that, because the majority of countries have decided to interpret it in a different way. I therefore wonder whether it is not time for us to revise our policy simply because it leads, on occasions, to misrepresentations about our attitude, and to misunderstandings. I would hope that, however that may be, we should in the future follow the Commonwealth, every other Commonwealth country, and at least abstain on such resolutions. I have tried to argue, I hope not at indecent length for a maiden speech, that if one is genuine about the ideals of this Motion one must often lay oneself open to charges of seeming to do exactly the opposite, and that we must often proceed slowly against forms of racial intolerance; this means that the Government cannot indulge in the sorts of angry outbursts of self-righteousness which are open to many others. I think that, as a matter of public relations, that makes it all the more important for the Government to seize every opportunity to get our attitude and belief in these ideals over to the world.
