gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I suppose many hon. Members have said this before and many will say it again. I rise with a great deal of humility and a great deal of pride to make my first speech in this House. I do so on this Measure at this hour particularly because I have worked during most of my adult working life in nationalised industries. While I wish to avoid contention where possible, I can only observe that this gives me a somewhat different view from that held by the hon. Member for Yeovil (Mr. Peyton). I am proud to be in this House. I am proud to represent part of the City of Norwich. I can say no more than  that no man could feel happier to represent a finer or fairer city or be more proud of the confidence expressed by the electors. The background of this request for additional borrowing powers is simple. It is the renascence of the gas industry. From 1950 to 1959 the sales of the industry remained virtually constant. Since 1959 the gas industry has shown a remarkable increase in sales. There is an explanation for this, an explanation—again I cannot avoid this point of contention—which cannot be gainsaid by a speech as inconsistent as the one made by the hon. Member for Yeovil. If we go back to 1954, we find the first of the public estimates put forward by the Gas Council, estimating for 1959–60 the sale of slightly less than 3,000 million therms. My right hon. Friend the Minister has made the point that forecasting is a most uncertain business, and I know this well to my cost. The fact remains, however, that against that estimate of nearly 3,000 million therms, sales in 1960 amounted to 2,500 million therms. In other words, on that occasion the estimators shot high. In February, 1960, a further publication appeared. All three publications to which I shall refer were, incidentally, published under the previous Government. For the first time in the history of the gas industry since the war, the February, 1960, publication began to stress the importance of using oil-based products—in other words, gas from oil. In this publication, the shift to oil is justified by arguments of the load factor type, that since oil plant is cheap capital-wise it is reasonable to install it, cutting the capital cost with plant to meet peak load. That is a legitimate argument; I do not think that many would argue against it. That same publication points out—and to do so within a matter of a few paragraphs is ""sitting on the fence""—that one of the great things about gas is its importance to the nation in helping to extract the utmost value from coal. What about the forecast that was put forward in February, 1960? The forecast for 1965–66 was slightly over 2,800 million therms, or a lower figure than the pundits six years previously had forecast for that same year of 1960. The forecast for domestic use was about 1,350 million therms. The interesting thing about this   forecast is that both these figures were exceeded in 1963 and 1964 and there is every indication that sales will continue to rise. Indeed, one of the few remarks made by the hon. Member for Yeovil with which I can agree was his comment that it looks as if the sales of gas will increase. My goodness, the industry's whole plan is based on that assumption. The plan for every other fuel industry is based on that assumption too. We can, therefore, describe the estimate made in 1960 as a low shot; the forecasters shot low. One of the things about forecasting is that one cannot be right. if anyone could be right about forecasting, there would be no need to be a forecaster. There are other more profitable activities. In October, 1963, the pamphlet ""Gas Goes Ahead"" was produced. That is a fair title. It describes what has happened in the gas industry. Gas has gone ahead. The previous estimate in 1960 was in terms of a 3 per cent. per annum increase in overall gas sales. In October, 1963, ""Gas Goes Ahead"" thought in terms of a 5 per cent. per annum increase in gas sales. Tonight, we have heard from my right hon. Friend the Minister that 5 per cent. is now reckoned to be low. What is the reason for that? Is it, as the hon. Member for Yeovil suggested, because of a renascence in Government administration? I reject that suggestion, because in that case the hon. Gentleman must account for the previous nine years of stagnation in the industry. What has happened is that the gas industry has been able to shift from dependence upon one fuel. Unlike virtually any other industry, it has been able to shift away from its dependence upon coal and to move into cheap oil-type sources. This has freed the gas industry to adopt new price policies, which it has done. We come back to the argument—unacceptable to hon. Members opposite but still true. Let us see the extent of this change. Perhaps I may burden the House with a few more figures. The measure of this change is shown by these gas industry figures for 1958–59 relating to new plant installed in the industry, the plant that commits one for the future. It shows the managerial type of decision that one is making, and one is, after all, committed to that plant. In terms of million cubic feet of capacity, in 1958–59, 31 million cubic feet of carbonisation plant were installed; 71 million cubic feet of oil gasification plant; and other plant—mainly water gas and producer gas—about 5 million. Those figures already show a shift to oil compared with previous years. In the last year for which figures are available, 1963–64, the figures for new carbonisation plant installed were 1 million for coal carbonisation, 262 million for oil gassification and for the other category 92 million. This is the extent of the shift away from coal. An industry which in the middle 1950s was using 28 million tons of coal, is now using 21 million tons of coal and by the 1970s, on the most optimistic estimate, will be using 14 million tons of coal. In the context of Great Britain's current fuel situation this seems to me to be a curious arrangement. It is the explanation of the gas industry's success, of its promotional tariff and of its freedom to advertise. It is, I think, a most compelling argument—and this is why I have strayed into the field of contention in this speech—for some sort of complete re-think about the co-ordination of the various fuel industries in this country. On that point I could not be more wholeheartedly in support of my right hon. Friend the Minister of Power. In asking for the indulgence of the House in having perhaps spoken more strongly than one should in his first speech, my reason is that I work in the fuel industry and there is a tremendous amount to be said for the policy put forward by my right hon. Friend.
