gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great diffidence to address this House for the first time, and I crave the indulgence of hon. Members of all parties, well knowing that it is a courtesy they are ever ready to grant. I also think it seemly that I should mention the noble Lady whom I succeeded, who served here for many years with distinction and who is regarded by hon. Members of all parties who know her, as she is by me, with affection and esteem. It is not unusual on these occasions for hon. Members to devote part of their speech to their own constituencies and I should like to follow that practice. The County of Anglesey ""Môn Mam Cymru"" —the House is hearing a lot of Welsh these days—is very largely a rural community and its prosperity is dependent in the main on a sound and well-planned agricultural policy. As compared with the uncertainty of pre-war years, both the farmers and farm workers in Anglesey have enjoyed a substantial measure of security in the last few years. Because of that there is a new spirit and a new hope abroad in the island. I was glad to observe in the Gracious Speech that an assurance was given that production by the agricultural industry will be encouraged by the Government. Farmers deserve to be encouraged, first and simply because they have been neglected in the past, and second, because our national recovery depends to an important extent upon their efforts. On the question of housing, the position in Anglesey is acute, as it is in most rural communities, especially in the scattered rural areas. We have there the legacy of a very large number of small cottages which are quite unfit for human habitation. Some of these cottages look deceptively charming from outside but inside  they are often a breeding ground of disease. Local authorities in Anglesey have been hampered partly because of the lack of large-scale builders in the area and also partly because of the lack of water and drainage facilities. These latter deficiencies are now being remedied and I hope that the Government will do nothing to discourage the introduction of these essential amenities in our rural areas. But our present need in Anglesey is for more and more houses to let. In my submission, it would be disastrous if this principle were wholly or even in part to be abandoned by the Government. On the question of individual house ownership, it is significant to note —and here I am speaking of my own district—that more individuals own their own houses after six and a half years of full employment than ever before. I should have liked to see in the Gracious Speech a reference to the relationship between this country and our near neighbour, Eire. This interests me particularly, because the prosperity of the town of Holyhead, which is the largest town in Anglesey and my own native town, depends on the traffic with Eire. It is noteworthy that the nearest large city to Holyhead is the City of Dublin, 60 miles away. I hope this Government will take every step to foster good will and increase trade between the two countries. It is my desire on this occasion to avoid controversial territory, but I must inform the Government that the Ministerial appointments made and proposed for my country of Wales fall very far short of Welsh aspirations as I understand them. With the best will in the world, the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Home Secretary cannot serve Wales adequately, for at least two good reasons. First, he already has upon his shoulders the onerous duties of a great Department of State. We want to know which is to have priority—the Home Office or Wales. We are not prepared to take second place. Secondly, the right hon. and learned Gentleman is not a Welshman. We in Wales are tired of having bits and pieces thrown at us. We do not want these ""crumbs from the rich man's table."" Our desperate anxiety in Wales is lest our language, which we prize above all   things, our traditions and our way of life should perish from the earth for ever. To preserve them we need a measure of responsibility upon our own shoulders in Wales. I hope and pray that the efforts of the Government to secure a lasting peace will be successful. There is not only a need to find an immediate solution to our international problems; it is equally vital to ensure that the seeds are not sown now which may result in a war in 25 or 50 years' time. We are the guardians of posterity. We must be concerned with those millions everywhere who are living in conditions of misery and poverty. It should be the prior aim of this Government to co-operate with all nations who are prepared to assist in raising the standards of life of peoples everywhere. That is why, in my submission, the Colombo scheme may well be regarded by future historians as the greatest single gesture of this generation. We may no longer be the leading world Power physically and materially. We cannot compare with the Soviet Union and the United States of America in manpower and resources; but morally we can lead the world, and it is that moral lead which the world expects from us today.
