gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity of making this my maiden speech which, I believe, by tradition will be extravagantly ignored and warmly praised, possibly in the reverse order. Conventions—and I carefully consulted a volume called ""Maiden Speeches for Beginners""—appear to give Members the right, after their first flight into verbiage, to take a full part in the House. Up to this point I have had to remain seated and make noises like ""Hear, hear"", with occasional shouts of ""Resign"". Consequently, I shall be grateful for getting this speech over. By tradition, I understand, one makes reference to one's predecessor. This is something which I should not like to do by tradition. My predecessor, the late Sir Harry Legge-Bourke, was the most admirable man, a man infinitely respected both in the House and one who had the love and respect of constituents of all political parties in the Isle of Ely. I am very proud to succeed him, and I do so in all humility. I believe that it is also a tradition that one makes reference to one's constituency. Many right hon. and hon. Members helped my cause during the by-election by speaking in the constituency on  behalf of the other candidates. They will have noticed that my constituents are an independent and an honourable people. This is historic fact; take the year 1816 in Littleport, which is in the south-east of my constituency; while the rest of the country seethed with indignation at the Governments' failure to keep down the price of food—which must ring a bell—the men of Littleport rioted. There took place the famous Littleport riots about which, I am sure, the House knows much. The men of my constituency, when they are roused, are honestly and decently roused. In the west of my constituency we have a town called Whittlesey in which there is a brickworks. This brickworks was part of the National Coal Board—a model employer, which when told in 1970 that nationalised industries must get rid of peripheral interests, kept the work force decently informed of what it intended to do. The National Coal Board wrote to the Whittlesey brickworks and the letter, which was addressed to all employees ended: Furthermore I am authorised to say that the National Coal Board would not agree to any sale unless they were satisfied that existing employees of the company would be fairly treated by any new owner. In spite of that message, which is a splendid concept of worker relations such as my party has always advocated, last Monday the brickworks was sold to the London Brick Company, and in two and quater hours of totally frustrating meetings the work force was given no guarantees about the retention of jobs, rates of pay, or anything else. I sent a telegram to the National Coal Board in protest. I received the following reply which I think should be looked at with interest. It says and I quote: You telegraphed the Chairman of the Coal Board on 26th October which we received here on the 29th. Unfortunately he is away…. Frankly I am impressed by this consolidation of Government Departments, because clearly, next time someone complains about the delay in first-class mail, it will be pointed out to him that this is normal, as telegrams now take three days. There is a tradition that a maiden speech should not be controversial. Earlier in the debate the Home Secretary blamed the Opposition for the hotel grant, which was £50 million. The right   hon. Gentleman expressed pride in his party's ending of that grant, to the approbation of his hon. and right hon. Friends. As I blame both parties for what has happened, I trust that this speech will be considered uncontroversial. The position in the hotel industry is that, due to the virtual non-existence of menial staff, hotels are closing down and restaurants are ceasing to function. The history is strange. The quota system was brought in during 1970, when the unemployment figures were rising one million. The system was brought in as a special concession to the difficulties of the catering industry, which has always employed foreign labour, and then, in spite of massive unemployment, the catering industry was allowed 3,500 foreign employees, provided that those employees had undergone a sufficient number of years of training. In 1973, the position is that the quota has been changed: 5,000 foreign workers may now be brought in, but that covers all trained and untrained people, the only exception being students, women and Maltese. It takes brilliance to find this sort of legislation! Tourism was responsible for £721 million last year, namely, 5 per cent. of our overseas earnings, and, because the position in the hotel industry is now intolerable, the tourist industry of Britain has become a laughing stock. In June of this year, 32,766 vacancies were notified to the Department of Employment. If one knows of the reluctance of the catering industry to notify that Department of vacancies, and if one realises that June is the month before the holidays begin, one knows that there were probably 100,000 vacancies to be filled. The catering industry can no longer employ for menial work the traditional staff, who came willingly from Greece, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus and latterly from Yugoslavia and North Africa, because Britain is in the Common Market and the Government thought, in their wisdom, that when we joined the Common Market, Frenchmen, Germans, Belgians and Dutchmen would come here, presumably drawn by the irresistible urge of our gastonomic delights, such as ""fish fingers"". It will come as no surprise that  they stayed in their own countries, and they stayed in their own countries because there they have four to six weeks' holiday in a year, and earn 30 per cent. more than they would in the catering industry in this country. What is more, all over the Continent, particularly in France, people in the catering industry are treated as respected members of a professional class. In this country they are not. In Austria, the wife of an assistant hall porter has a title; she is known as ""Mrs. Assistant Hall Porter"". In this country a waiter has no credit rating; he cannot obtain a mortgage and is treated as itinerant. That is an appalling state. There are two ways to put tourism back into a responsible position and one of which we can be proud: first, by encouraging young people to go into all kinds of catering; secondly, to make catering the honourable profession it is in other Common Market countries. At this moment it would be unthinkable at a social function to sit next to a hotel hall porter; hall porters are treated as lepers—they do not go out—though in France they become mayors and aldermen. The country must consider hotel workers as honourable people and have training schools to make them so. While this is taking place, the industry needs a ""bridging loan"" of foreign labour to do the menial tasks, and it does not matter where the labour comes from. At present, it takes between 10 and 20 weeks to get a work permit for the class of student, woman, or Maltese who are the only people in this country prepared and allowed to wash up—and an awful lot of washing up piles up in 10 or 20 weeks. If that does not happen, if the hotel industry is allowed to continue with a deficit of 100,000 people, our image will sadly deteriorate. At present, we are serving gastronomic Muzak. I saw a cartoon the other day in which a customer turned to the waiter and said, ""My compliments to the mechanic."" That is very sad, because in this country we have splendid natural ingredients, many of which are grown in my constituency. We should be proud of our food and stop imitating that of other nations, and make our hotel industry one of which we can be proud, not ashamed.
