gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am making my first speech in this illustrious House, and, as the new hon. Member for Antrim, South, I am conscious of the fact that I stand in line of succession from former hon. Members Sir Hugh O'Neill, Professor Savory Sir Knox Cunningham, and my immediate predecessor, my hon. Friend the Member for Lagan Valley (Mr. Molyneaux). I have the almost unique privilege, because of boundary changes, of sitting on the same Bench as my predecessor, who now represents another part of the old Antrim, South constituency. He is an hon. Member for whom I have the highest regard, and if I have one half of his common sense, integrity, ability and vision, I shall serve my constituents well. The new constituency of Antrim, South has within its boundary farming, rural and urban areas, and is populated by all classes and creeds. It encloses half of Newtownabbey borough and all of the Antrim borough, and includes the market towns of Antrim and Ballyclare. My constituents are hardworking and industrious and have a way of living which they have endeavoured to maintain despite unemployment and terrorism. The constituency has, for almost a century, returned an Ulster Unionist to the House to look after its interests, and most of those interests would be covered by the appropriation order, with the notable exception of security — a subject on which I shall comment at the earliest possible opportunity. I shall speak of the other subjects because I feel that it is my duty as the new hon. Member for Antrim, South to bring them to the attention of the House, which is the mother of Parliaments, and to which I have been sent by my constituents. My constituents work in the intensive sector of fanning, which is of tremendous importance to us, as has been said already, but they have been badly treated recently. My farming friends have told me that while they are willing to compete with anyone fairly and realistically , grains which cost £8 to £10 per tonne more in Northern Ireland than on the mainland cannot be regarded as assisting fair competition, whatever the reasons for the problem. If one adds to that the expense incurred in exporting the product, it can be seen that these extra burdens are hard to overcome. My friends also tell me that even the 50,000 tonnes of intervention grain brought into Northern Ireland would lower the egg price by only 1/4p per dozen. The same farmers are losing about 13p per dozen in the operation. Before anyone accuses me of coming here with the begging bowl, I point out that in 1981–82 there was an underspend of £6 million in the agricultural Estimate, and the provisional figures for 1982–83 show an underspend of £9 million. Some attempt should have been made to redirect this money. I support the view that in the agricultural Estimate at least, a contingency fund should be set aside each year to support sectors that experience seasonal problems that can be dealt with only on a demand basis. The present rundown of the Michelin tyre company in my constituency and the previous closures of the multinational companies concerned only with making a quick profit and running for cover at the first sign of   trouble, all the while paying lip service to the hard work and industry of its redundant workers have been body blows to my constituency. I hope that industrial development promotions and grants will be applied to smaller indigenous firms which mainly look for just a little support, bearing in mind a shortfall of £8 million in the industry, energy, trade and employment Estimates for 1981–82 and the provisional figure of £31 million in the 1982–83 Estimates. The same point about reallocation can be made here, and that kind of money would have been useful to our local firms, which would not have cut and run. In Class IV, Votes 1 and 2, dealing with the Department of the Environment, the reference to roads and road safety should take into account that extremely dangerous road —already mentioned by the hon. Member for Antrim, North (Rev. Ian Paisley)—the A26, which runs from Antrim to Ballymena. As has been said, the Antrim and Ballymena borough councils are united in their view that that bottleneck should be sorted out by constructing a road of motorway standard on the original line envisaged by the planners or, failing that, a dual carriageway on the original line. I was embarrassed for the former Minister for the environment when he attended a meeting of representatives from the two councils and had to justify a complete turnabout by his Department. In 1979, the Department had produced 11 reasons to support a motorway, and in 1983 the same Department produced an almost equal number of reasons against it. The new proposal suggests making the A26 a dual carriageway which will continue to be used during construction. That is on a section of road 6·4 miles long, with 19 farmers having land on both sides of the road, 22 farmers having land on one side, 86 private entrances, seven crossroads, five single roads, 48 bus stops and 86 farm gates. The idea of farmers driving cattle or sheep across a fast dual carriageway could surely be believed only by those characters whom we see in the TV show, ""Yes Minister"". I could make several speeches on Class VIII, the education programme, but I shall refer to only one school, Ballyclare high school. That grammar school has a high reputation in educational circles, but if it were not for the excellent teaching of its staff, the deplorable conditions which have remained virtually unchanged for 20 years would lead to a falling off of new pupils and eventual closure. I pay tribute to the headmaster and staff for their dedication and inventiveness which maintain the school's reputation. I invite the new Minister responsible for education in Northern Ireland to join me in a visit to the school, so that he may see for himself the conditions there. Together with my colleagues who represent the other Northern Ireland constituencies, I make great use of Belfast airport to attend this House. Fortunately, that airport is within my constituency. I am well aware of the speed and dependability of the service. While some can make a case for using Sydenham as a short-haul airport, there can be no doubt that the new facilities at Belfast airport have established it as Northern Ireland's international airport. In my maiden speech, I cannot help but notice the sparseness of attendance in the House. It is little wonder  that the House takes some remote decisions on Northern Ireland, and it is about time that hon. Members at least paid us the compliment of coming along to see those whom they think have two heads.
