gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak today. I, too, would like to thank the many Members and Officers of the House who have been so helpful to me since my arrival. Also, as one maiden speaker to another. I congratulate the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Patten) on his speech. I congratulate him particularly on managing to avoid being non-controversial. I shall try to do likewise. Coming from Hammersmith, North is an interesting experience, if only because it has an interesting and explosive history The representative before last was one D. N. Pritt, who was extremely well known in the House, held the seat for many years, eventually fought and won as an independent and then was replaced by my predecessor, Mr Frank Tomney, who held the seat for more years than I have held it days—29, in fact—and who will be well remembered in the constituency. North Hammersmith, although interesting, has many of the problems associated with inner cities. One which is relevant to this debate is the problem of low income. The area therefore has an accumulation of social problems. A year ago, nearly half of all households there had an income of less than £20 per week per person. That important figure tells one much about the problems of the area and its people. I ask the House to consider what it means to be given the opportunity in those circumstances to buy one's own council house or flat. That is the policy at the moment of this Government, of the GLC and of Hammersmith borough council. If nearly half the households in an area have such low incomes, who will buy those properties? When one remembers that the incomes increase only slowly up the scale over that figure, one begins to realise the serious extent of the problem, which will not be solved by such palliatives. A result of that policy, by the GLC in particular, is that people asking for transfers to better properties within the GLC area are now being told that they cannot go to West London. It has to be East London, with all that that implies for family relationships and friendships. Three-quarters of the properties in North Hammersmith are more than 60 years old, which produces major problems of maintenance and in buying and selling property. Many of the schemes introduced by the local authority have been designed to help, and I welcome that. Twice the number of children are in care in North Hammersmith than the GLC average. It has the second highest number of single-parent families in the country, the second highest proportion of over-65s in inner London and the second highest number of hospital admissions for mentally ill and mentally handicapped in inner London—in other words, a combination of the type of social and economic problems that I have described, stemming largely, although not entirely, from low income. Unemployment for the under-20s has been rising in the area at twice the average rate, particularly for the West Indian community. I think that in 1971 nearly a quarter of all West Indians of that age were unemployed. The area has a good reputation in race relations, and it is my aim to maintain it since I regard it as particularly important. I am proud of the ethnic minority groups in my area who have added so much to the culture and quality of our society there. The factors that I have listed are the inner city problems about which we talk. They are not unique to North Hammer-smith, but I think I have shown that they are much greater there than in other areas. That was recognised by the previous Secretary of State for the Environment when he made Hammersmith a programme authority—the only one in the South of England. There are partnership authorities, but Hammersmith is the only programme authority, thus gaining special aid. It will be a priority of mine in the House to ensure that the present Government do not cut that aid, which is vital for inner city areas. I must ask myself not only what does the Budget do for the country, but what does it do for the people of North Hammersmith? A married couple earning £60 a week will have a net saving, after VAT is taken into account, of 77p per week. I shall receive about £4 a week. I wonder whether I shall really do £4 a week more work and how that will  be measured against the person who receives only 77p a week. I also ask myself a basic moral question. Is it right? When Hammersmith council changed hands and the Liberals held the balance of power, it froze the rates. In effect that meant a cut in rates because of inflation. It is easy to cut taxes and to freeze rates, but there is a social cost. I understand when people say that the social cost cannot be measured. Perhaps it cannot be measured, but we know the cost in terms of the quality of human life. We may not have the ability to measure the cost in the same way as we can measure money, but nevertheless there is a real cost. The cost came home to the people of Hammersmith, North when there was an attempt to close one of the luncheon clubs and when there was a successful attempt to double the price of meals on wheels. That is what cuts and freezes in rates mean. A friend from a rapidly developing nation said to me some years ago ""I cannot understand why the British people complain about taxation. Everywhere I go there are good roads, schools and hospitals. When I go a few miles outside my home town, poverty is all around me. What are the British complaining about?"" My friend was right. Public expenditure cuts can only make the situation worse. They cannot improve it. They can only make it worse, except for a minority of people. I shall probably do quite well out of the Budget. I am not proud of that. I am not pleased about it. I like to think that no hon. Member will be pleased about it. The Chancellor bases his strategy on the idea that if one cuts taxes, people will be given a greater incentive. It has become a commonsense myth. We all live by common sense, and we need it. But common sense can become common nonsense. There is no evidence that people will have more incentive. A number of studies in this country and elsewhere demonstrate that for countries with tax bands similar to ours this method is irrelevant. There is evidence that a high rate of taxation can increase effort. That is because a person on a low income has to work hard. There is evidence of that in the developing nations. It is dangerous to base a Budget strategy   on an assumption which is far from proven and which encourages the idea that some people are infinitely more valuable than others. I accept that people make different contributions to society. However, it is difficult to measure how a mentally handicapped person, for example, who has no way of competing with me, is to be rewarded if the rewards are based simply on achievements in our economic structure. How is the value of a physically handicapped person to be measured? How is a person to be measured if he comes from a deprived urban area and he does not battle and fight his way to the top? There can be strong arguments for unfair actions, but no moral argument can justify such actions to the person at the lower end of the scale. The Government have to remember that if they attempt to justify economically tax cuts and higher wages for people at the top, there are no moral arguments to prevent a person at the lower end of the scale doing everything that he can to get more. This is a crucial issue because it is the type of issue that can bring a Government down, as we have seen in the past. I can understand the Government feeling proud of themselves and preening themselves, having won the election. They deserve to do that. But when one is preening oneself, one should remember, particularly if one is a chicken, that it might be Christmas Eve and the oven might already be alight.
