gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this, my first speech to the House, I should like to pay tribute to the right hon. David Gibson-Watt, who had the honour of representing the constituency of Hereford since 1956. I know that he had the respect of the House, as he did of the constituency, in that he served with dedication and distinction both as a Member and as a Minister. I thank him for the help that he has given me and the friendship that he has bestowed upon me, and I know that the House will join me in wishing him well for the future. I should like to refresh the memory of the House about the nature of my constituency, as in all probability it is 18 years since it was last described. Although we in Herefordshire sometimes feel that change is something that happens somewhere else, there has been a substantial amount of change which has taken place gradually over the years—some welcomed, some regarded with reservation and some highly controversial. The constituency comprises the southern half of Herefordshire and includes the   city of Hereford. It is an area of approximately 470,000 square miles with a population of just over 90,000 souls. The activities pursued in the constituency are wide and varied. Light industry abounds in Hereford, Ross-on-Wye and many of the smaller communities. We have no mining or heavy industry, but the astonishingly assorted variety of the enterprises undertaken in the county compensates for that. The main character of the constituency is agricultural, the level of employment in agriculture being four times the national average. Although half the population lives within the city boundary, the support industry, services, shops and businesses all to a large extent rely on the success of the farming sector. Approximately half the population of the constituency is dependent upon the prosperity of the countryside. Just as the scope of industry in the county is broad, so is that of agriculture. There is a complete spectrum of all kinds of farming and horticulture, carried on with considerable expertise. Herefordshire has long enjoyed a high reputation for the quality of its livestock. Our cattle—instantly recognisable by the white curly hair on their faces—and our sheep are exported to most parts of Britain and our pedigree Hereford cattle to many parts of the world—as anyone who watches Westerns will know. We are located in one of the oldest fruit-growing areas, with a history of apple culture going back to Norman times, and we boast the largest cider factory in the world—well represented in the House. Huge quantities of cider apples are grown in the county, and a substantion acreage is also devoted to the production of dessert and cooking apples. A wide variety of soft fruits is also grown. Although the acreage of vegetables is relatively small, there are a few modern tomato nurseries where production is of a very high order. As is general throughout the country, the labour force in agriculture is diminishing. The number of whole-time workers has fallen by half—from 6,500 in 1956 to 3,250 in 1973. Whilst this has been offset to some degree by increased mechanisation, there has been an increase in all types of livestock, which might have  been expected to demand more rather than less labour. This must mean that there has been an increase in productivity in the county during that time. Thus, Herefordshire farmers are showing that a high level of productivity can be achieved with a reduced labour force, while the scenic attractions of the county are left unimpaired. It is this very success which has emphasised the difficulties which Herefordshire's farmers have been experiencing of late. The problems have by no means been confined to the beef question, although beef is important in Herefordshire. In 1974 the problem areas have included dairy farming, pigs and sugar beet, as well as beef. The other disciplines of farming practised in Herefordshire have had and are having their difficulties, but I wish to confine my remarks to the four subjects of beef, pigs, dairy farming and beet. During the summer, the dairy farmers found themselves in a squeeze which became intolerable. Total feed costs had risen by £40 per cow per annum and labour costs by £50 per cow per annum, coupled with a drop of 40 per cent. in the price of calves. Our dairy farmers took the only way out available to them. As they were faced with a 50 per cent. reduction in the net profit margin, they reduced their stock. They reduced it significantly, so as to cut out the element of bought-out feed by which they had intensified production. In some instances this meant a cut-back of 30 per cent. The price increase of 7·7p a gallon of milk was welcome, but it was too late to stop the slaughterings that had occurred in the summer. The pig subsidy, introduced in March, failed to provide the better return needed by our pig producers. Every farmer in the county was appalled at the high level of sow slaughterings during the summer, and that had its effect on the pig herd The reduction in the pig herd eventually put prices on the right track in the market, but not until late September, and that was for no reason other than shortages. Sugar beet is grown extensively in the southern part of the county. It is not a major industry, but a significant one. The problem is that the distance to the   nearest sugar beet factory in Kidderminster, is more than 30 miles— in fact, it is 50 miles. The contract price offered to the growers this year is satisfactory generally, but they are worried about the transport allowance which puts them at a disadvantage with growers in other parts of the country. This season's transport allowance of 45p per ton, plus 2·5p per mile up to 30 miles maximum gives a figure of £1·20 per ton, but South Herefordshire growers are faced with a minimum cost of £1·50 per ton. That discrepancy is bound to cause some growers to review the acreage of beet they wish to take up next season. If there were to be a substantial reduction of beet grown in South Herefordshire it would adversely affect the economics of the factory at Kidderminster. If we are to avoid the domino effect of factory closure leading to no beet being grown in the West Midlands, with the possible loss of the acreage to our EEC partners, steps should be taken immediately to remove the anomaly. I suggest that there should be an increase in the radius of 15 miles, making a radius of 45 miles. That would provide a satisfactory compromise between those outside and those inside the 30-mile radius. This question should be resolved before contracts are signed so that Herefordshire's growers know where they are going. My constituency is very prominent in the beef-producing league, and that is our hottest potato. Because of the geography and geology of the constituency the whole cycle of beef production is carried on within its boundaries. In the west we have the uplands bordering the Principality of Wales. Some parts are high enough to qualify for hill farming subsidies. In the centre we have the lowlands. More than half the farmland in the county is in grass, either permanent or leys. Every system of calf rearing in general practice is being used in the county. Most Hereford calves are born outdoors in the spring or winter. They are single suckled, and weaned in the autumn. That is typical of the western parts which are high-lying and cannot grow sufficient feed to take the calves further on. In the past, sufficient winter fodder was grown to maintain the breeding herd, but with intensification the prac-  tice has become to increase the breeding herd and purchasing the necessary winter feed, using the return from the extra calves reared and sold. The recent position, whereby the price fetched by fat cattle constituted a loss to the finisher and a consequent reduction in his purchasing power, coupled with premium payments designed to keep finished beef out of the market, has led to a drop in demand. No sale of calves means no purchase of feedstuffs, and we now have both calves and breeding herds facing starvation. The poor hay crop and other difficulties which have caused a shortfall in winter feedstuffs serve only to compound the agony. Urgent consideration must be given to finding ways of removing this livestock from the hills before we are faced with an epidemic of death by starvation. Leaving aside the question of cruelty, that situation will have a serious effect on the supply of calves next spring, with a resultant shortage of finished beef in two years or so. If the only way to clear this log jam is to export the animals live, let us get on with it, taking all due pre-cautious. The only other way is by slaughter—and every abattoir of which I have experience already has a very long waiting list. The other method of beef-calf rearing widely practised in Herefordshire is that of multiple suckling, using Hereford cross-bred cows. This uitilises the offspring of the dairy herds, and these cattle are sold as stores. Whereas it was not unusual to suckle six or more calves in a year on one cow, the trend now is to suckle only two or so. The cut-back is understandable, but the chances are that it will be too drastic to ensure that there are proper beef supplies in 1976 and 1977. These are the problems facing my constituency. Of the four I have discussed, three have been exacerbated by action having been taken generally too late and sometimes too little. Although farmers in my constituency welcome a floor in the market for beef, they feel that £18 per live hundredweight at present is too low. They say—and with justification—that what was just enough in July will not cover them now, in November. This will hardly give farmers the confidence they need. Farmers also comment that the measures are to last only until 31st January next year. Where, they ask, is the basis in which they can plan ahead? They point out that we have averaged only three and a half years between General Elections since the war, and that it takes two and a half years for decisions in beef farming taken now to take effect. Somebody once said that for every solution we have a problem, and it seems that we have provided solutions in the short term only to face in the immediate future the problems which result from those solutions. The essential thing that must result from this debate, and the actions taken as a result of it, is that we should end up with a much longer-term system of planning, so that the criteria on which the farmer bases his decisions today will be valid when the results of his plans come to fruition.
