gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Representing, as I do, Mr. Deputy Speaker, one of the most widely-flung  London constituencies, entirely dormitory in character and having as its two main problems transportation and housing, I am extremely grateful to have caught your eye. I speak as one who has had the honour to serve on the housing committee of a borough council. I shall endeavour, in my remarks, to keep the political temperature of this highly controversial topic at the very lowest point and, at the same time, ask the House to extend its time-honoured courtesy to one who is addressing it for the first time. I intend to restrict my remarks to two matters. The first is that, in my opinion, many local councils have extremely poor public relations, which is aggravating their housing problem. Secondly, I wish to say a few words about the future of housing in London. The home is the centre of happy family life and of our whole social outlook. The housing waiting list is the centre of misery—of expectation, in some cases, but, in more cases than not, of uncertainty. This is due almost entirely to the poor public relations of many local authorities, whatever may be their political complexion. When good authorities get an application acceptable for their housing list, they point the applicants, send them a copy of the housing points scheme, inform them of the pointage in their category, and tell them when, at the estimated rate of progress, they are likely to receive accommodation. Those families, and the man in particular, see a chink of light on the horizon and know that there is at least some hope. They can then look around and decide whether to put up with their present conditions and wait for a council house, or just make that little extra effort which, in many cases, will enable them either to purchase or to rent a house of their own. It is time that local authorities took the people on their housing lists into their confidence. Only those authorities which fail to do the best they can in the circumstances are likely to face the wrath of the electorate. People on the housing lists should be treated as human beings, not as mere numbers. They are entitled to know when it is likely that the local authority will be able to help. That type of information brings out the best in our people, and local authorities should concentrate on giving it. Lack of knowledge, of understanding of the position, breeds frustration. It creates a feeling that there may be something wrong with an allocation system that gives a house to Mrs. Brown before Mrs. Smith gets hers. That is not what we want. If local authorities will take the people into their confidence they will reduce that sense of frustration —perhaps not in any large measure, but every extra person who can be helped improves the situation. I do not think that any hon. Member will dispute that London has a massive housing problem ahead of it. The main problem is not finance, but shortage of sites. Therefore, we want really urgent action, and a complete reappraisal of what we are to do with the available land. We have to look again at all the land, all the zoning problems. London's priority No. 1 is housing, and I will be as drastic and revolutionary as anyone likes by saying that we should now decide that there is to be no further factory or office building on sites that are to be redeveloped. Once and for all, we should concentrate on housing and, of course, on the ancillary services, such as schools. If the Government were to give this matter really urgent and energetic attention they would not only increase the density on those sites that come up for redevelopment, as my hon. Friend the Parliamentary Secretary said, but they would look again at the whole thing, rezone areas now designated for industrial and office purposes, and look at the surplus land that is still in the hands of such public authorities as British Railways. If they were to do that we might greatly change the outlook for London's housing. At present, this is an essential task for the Government. The Government and the local authorities will be judged on the boldness of their imagination and the urgency of their action. ""Time and tide wait for no man""—London's housing problem certainly does not. For those on the housing lists, justice has not only to be done but has to be seen to be done as well.
