gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to ask the House for the indulgence which it is custom to accord to maiden speakers, I have a slight confession to make. It is that I find myself seeking to make my first contribution rather sooner than I had first intended. When I first came to the House, I discovered from a board on the wall of the Library that the year 1965 would mark the four-hundredth anniversary of the election of the first of three members of my family to the office of Speaker of the House of Commons. I am sorry to say that although this seemed to provide an excellent reason for deferring my first contribution until after the new year, further research has revealed that this anniversary is not falling due until 1966, and even to my unskilled eye it seems that it cannot be taken as a matter of complete certainty that this Parliament will go quite that distance. Nevertheless, I am very glad to have the opportunity to intervene in this debate for two reasons. The first is that I represent Woking, which has a very powerful and close interest in Service matters. The second is that the constituency was previously represented, for 14 years, by Harold Watkinson, as he then was, a Member who served his constituency, the House and the country with great distinction and who was one of the best Ministers of Defence of the post-war era. I need not remind the House that my predecessor continues to serve Britain in another place. He pipped me at the post by making his maiden speech there last week. When I came to prepare what I have to say today, I looked up what my predecessor said when making his maiden speech in March, 1950. As his theme on that occasion, he used the motto of the naval gunnery school at which he had  served, It is, ""If you want peace, prepare for war"". He added: That is a good motto, but it needs a qualification—that we should prepare for the next war and not for the last.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 16th March, 1950; Vol. 472, c. 1350.] We all want peace just as much now as in 1950, if not more, and it is as important now as it was in 1950 that we should be sure that we achieve peace by preparing for the right war, in this way hoping to prevent it. When we come to consider this issue, we have to ask ourselves where the war is likely to come. I agree with the hon. and learned Member for Northampton (Mr. Paget) that conventional war in Europe is scarcely a possibility now. Immediately after the war, those of us serving with the occupation forces in Germany may have been firmly convinced that there was a possibility of conventional war in Europe and the events of 1948 may have added to that conviction. But this is scarcely so nowadays. Without entering into any controversy about the rights or wrongs of maintaining B.A.O.R. at its present size. I must confess that I see very little good military reason which can be adduced for increasing it—even the possibility thrown out by the hon. and learned Member of putting forces in reserve through training in the tropical rain forests of the Westphalian Plain and providing what was known in my days at Sandhurst as a jungle exercise without trees. The truth of the matter is that the most likely place for us to be involved in a war, on behalf of members of the Commonwealth, our own allies in S.E.A.T.O., or the United Nations, is Asia, South and South-Eastern Asia, and we have to calculate accordingly. We need the men with ,the weapons who would be able to discharge their responsibilities in such a war if it ever came. This is just as true on whosoever's part we are required to intervene, because, however much we may look forward to the time when we have British Forces in a United Nations peace-keeping force, we are still a long way from the point when all such forces will need are a gross or two of pick helves and a plentiful supply of blue paint. We need weapons to wage war against an adversary armed with modern weapons and we must be   seen to be strong enough to deter the possibility of the occurrence of such a war. A particular point is that of the TSR2. This is an aircraft which is designed for service in the tropics and to carry out the sort of functions likely to occur in a war in that part of the world. It may cost ten times as much as the Canberra, but it will be ten times as useful as the Canberra, simply because we find ourselves up against an enemy with defences which, in the context of that war, would make the Canberra as difficult a weapon with which to penetrate as were the Swordfish or the Gladiator in the war of 1939–45. We do not want a string-bag Air Force. We must not put too high a premium on the sheer gallantry of those who serve us. We must not have a force which is equipped with second best weapons. If we want to be seen to be strong, the way to do it is to provide the weapons that we might need. Although we get calls for economy, they are not new. They do not necessarily occur only when the Chancellor of the Exchequer comes panting into the House to announce that there are gnomes at the bottom of his garden. We have a constant duty to maintain a watch on defence spending, and I think that it has been discharged; but it must not be false economy. Economy which would send our Forces ill-equipped into any battle would be false economy. So, too, would be economies which had the effect of blunting our industrial spearhead, because our defence industries are a powerful means of technological advance. I am sure that I need not remind the House that the progress made in the last 50 years in the design and production of the motor car or aeroplane is very largely due to the tremendous sums of money which had to be spent on those articles because we were involved in two world wars. The defence production fall-out is still there, and if hon. Members need any evidence of this it is only necessary to ask: if there were no TSR2 would there be any Concord, or would there be any British Aircraft Corporation to build the Concord? On my final point I find myself in agreement with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Northampton, and I should like, if I may, to express  my pleasure that I do. It is on the Service pension. We have always a difficult task in maintaining strong and efficient volunteer forces in peace time, and it is most encouraging to see, and to hear from the Minister, what has been done to raise the standards of the young men entering the Army. I was lucky enough, last Friday, to attend the passing out parade of the Junior Guardsmen's Company, at Pirbright, where I saw and heard of the remarkable strides made in recent years in training and educating boy soldiers. Yet it is true that the Services are living organisms, that tradition plays a vital part, and that old soldiers are just as important to morale as young soldiers. I have no wish to enter into controversy between the hon. and learned Gentleman and his own Government, but, at the same time, I have no wish to be thought ungenerous to the late Government. I recognise that they did a great deal to improve the Service pension. I believe, however, that there is still more to be done, and that the House will agree on that. I take one point in particular. We have the prospect before us shortly of agreeing that the widows of Members of this House should be entitled to half their husbands' pensions. Why, may I suggest, could not this right be extended to Service widows whose present entitlement is to merely one-third of their husband's pensions? I hope we shall hear from the Government that something is to be done about this, and done soon, because, I believe the House will agree, there should be in future no need, at any regimental reunion, to lay a place for the spectre of poverty, however genteel. I am most grateful to the House for its patience and indulgence.
