gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I crave the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech? I should like to start by paying a very sincere tribute to the late Jack McCann, my predecessor as Member for Rochdale. He was a man I knew very well indeed. No one who knew him could fail to be impressed by his diligence, his honesty, his cheerfulness and his concern for others. Those of us who knew him well understood in the last two years how he laboured under considerable difficulties due to the handicap of illness. I am sure that the House is poorer for his passing. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I hope that I may follow his example of service to others and particularly to the people of Rochdale. I am aware that one's maiden speech is expected to be non-controversial, but naturally my arrival here will not be universally welcomed. However, I believe that I represent all sections of Rochdale. I believe that my vote shows this, that I represent people of all classes, all creeds and all races. I am very happy that the Liberal Party is able to embrace them all. We have heard a great deal today about the problems of land prices and of housing. As a member of a local authority and a past chairman of a housing committee, I am well aware of these problems. The House will forgive me, I hope, if I stray a little from the literal subject of the debate. I should have preferred to make these points earlier in the week, but obviously I was not able to do so. One of the major problems facing local authorities today over improvement grants is the time limit that the Government have placed on them in order to obtain the 75 per cent. grant. That time limit—June, 1974—is causing a bonanza for builders in my part of the country. The ratepayers of Rochdale and, I suspect, of many other towns are being virtually held to ransom now that builders realise that we are compelled, if we wish to obtain 75 per cent. grants, to complete the buildings by the date the Government have set. I would therefore urge the Government to announce as soon as possible an extension of that date. Such an extension would considerably reduce the price to local authorities of improving houses. The problem of high land prices causes other problems as well. It is those problems to which I wish to refer today. One of the major problems is that of attracting industry into one's area. This is very difficult when the price of land is so high—almost exorbitant. There is little point, however, in attracting new industry unless one retains existing industry. I want to refer particlularly to the spinning section of the textile industry. My constituents have grave doubts as to their ability to continue to produce in the new situation created from January, 1973. If I may say so in a non-controversial way, textiles have been repeatedly badly dealt with by successive Governments. I would plead with the Government to pay attention to our spinning industry before it follows the fate of 51 spinning mills which have closed in the last five years and, over textiles as a whole, the fate of 348 mills which have also closed in the last five years. The real concern of the spinning industry is of course due to the liberalisation—I use the word technically rather than politically—of cotton yarn imports. This means that, from 1st January, 1973, Mediterranean countries will have no quotas on their exports to this country. My constituents greatly fear the effect that exports, particularly from Turkey and Greece, will have on our ability to sell home-spun yarn. We cannot easily compete against countries which subsidise their yarn exports, as does Turkey, for example, to the tune of 15 per cent. I am therefore pleading for some control of yarn imports. If this is not done, anything from 5,000 to 30,000 jobs in the spinning industry are likely to be lost. In Rochdale we already have an unemployment problem at a rate of 4·2 per cent., as against the national average of 3·6 per cent., which represents close on 2,000 people unemployed. Unemployment is a cancerous evil. It is my fervent hope that Her Majesty's Government will consider this problem before it is too late. I appeal to the Government to come clean on textiles, so say where they stand and to tell us whether they want a textile industry. The House will know that many people previously employed in textiles now live or exist in retirement. I should like to make a last plea for them also. One welcomes anything that can be done to help pensioners enjoy the eventide of their lives. One knows that loneliness is as much a problem of age as is poverty. Coupled with the help to elderly people in combating loneliness is our whole television network, so I hope that I might raise an issue of concern to my constituents which was a major issue during the election. I refer to the concern about why some pensioners can get a television licence for 5p while others have to pay £7. This is a bone of contention with old-age pensioners. It is grossly unfair that pensioners living in a bungalow which is warden-controlled get their licences for 5p, but that a pensioner across the road in another bungalow which is not warden-controlled has to pay £7 for the same thing. I appeal to the Government to try during this Session to introduce legislation to alleviate that anomaly. I hasten  to add that we want it alleviated to the extent that everyone pays 5p and not that everyone pays £7. My final point on pensions is very simple. It came up during the election and I felt that it was worthy of consideration. A number of pensioners asked me why they could not draw their pensions through Giro as applies to social security payments. I would again urge the Government to consider the possibility of a pensioner receiving his pension in this way if he should so opt. In the coming months I shall no doubt address the House on these matters and many others—I realise, with possibly less ease than I have done today. I am grateful to the House for the tolerance and patience that it has shown me this afternoon. I hope that, despite the fact that this is a maiden speech, the Government will note the three points that I have made—first, the need to control the import of yarns as from January, 1973; second, the desirability of a television licence at 5p rather than £7 for old-age pensioners; and, third, the case for pensioners being able to obtain their pensions by Giro. If I could feel that my sojourn here had helped on all or any of these points, it will have been worth while. Certainly I expect to hear them raised again. God willing, I intend my sojourn to be a long and honourable one.
