gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg the indulgence of the Committee. I shall endeavour to summarise in a comparatively few minutes what has taken me a number of weeks to collect together. I have been concerned for many years now with food. To many hon. Members that may seem very wide of the mark in this Debate, but it will not seem so to those comparatively few who are closely concerned with it. I find that where there is an under-fed population in any part of the world, there is great difficulty in maintaining law and order. Where there is an under-fed people, Communism can spread very rapidly. This country and the world today must face the very rapid spread of Communism unless we do something in the areas which I have investigated. The countries of South-East Asia and the Middle East cannot be divided. They are as one. If one brackets together Egypt and the Middle East, Persia, Afghanistan, Saudi-Arabia and Iraq into one zone, and Burma, Indo-China, Siam and Malaya into another zone, they make a V-shaped formation on the map. In the first zone there is a population of 38 million. That is in Persia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Saudi-Arabia and Iraq. In the other area, French Indo-China, Siam and Malaya, there are a further 66 million people, making a total of 100 million people. The conditions in which these people in these areas lived before the last   war were, on the whole, deplorable. They have lived on the edge of starvation for centuries, and one might reasonably say that they are content to live at that level. Even though these people may be glad to live on a pre-war level, it should be appreciated that at the present time they are far worse off than they were before the war started. There are countries in the Western Hemisphere which have not done too badly since the war finished; some of them are enjoying rations as good as pre-war, in quantity at least, and some are exceeding the pre-war quantity. When we consider that people in the countries I have mentioned are living on a calorie scale which is about half the scale that applies in this country, then we can have some conception of just how near these people are to starvation, and can appreciate how gladly they will receive anybody who will bring them food, whatever be their creed. It is time that the free countries in the world took stock and said what they are going to do for these people, not only in the interests of these people alone but in the interests of peace and of putting down Communism. I have given some consideration to the food problem and to what can be achieved. It is not possible to say that we will give a large amount of food to ICO million people. We all know that the stock position in this country does not permit of anything of that kind. But if we wished to provide for these people an uplift in terms of calories—I know the Minister of Food does not like the word, but I am talking of the balance between cereals and animal fats—if we were to give an uplift of 500 calories to 100 million people, it could be done. In terms of quantities of food it is very large; in terms of world production it is largely insignificant. For instance, taking zone A, which comprises Persia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Saudi-Arabia and Iraq, with 38 million people, 4,620 tons of meat and fats a day would give those people an increase of 500 calories a day. That is not an impossible figure. In zone B, Burma, Indo-China, Siam and Malaya, with 66 million people, 8,025 tons would provide an uplift of 500 calories for those people. I suggest that we could afford from the stocks of food in this world the amount  of food necessary to give them this necessary uplift. I further suggest that if that uplift were given to those 100 million people, we would have better citizens in the world; we would have people prepared to resist Communism because they would be happy with the people who were caring for them. If the free countries in the world were to give careful consideration to lifting the calorie scale and raising the standard of living of the people in those areas, they would find the finest defence against the advance of Communism. I am certain that unless something is done for these people, not only in that part of the world but all over the world, Communism will continue to spread, and I do not think there is any hope for the world unless we take care of people who are in such a plight.
