gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to make my first speech in this House with what to anyone on these benches is a double sense of diffidence, because I am feeling very unhappy about this Bill in relation to its treatment of the non-county borough. Perhaps I may be bold enough to say in reply to the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Brighton (Mr. Marlowe) that we on this side do not need to be told by him or his friends what we ought to do. My hon. Friend the Member for Ipswich (Mr. Stokes) said that he hates policemen. A good deal has been said in the course of the Debate to the effect that the purpose of policemen is the prevention and detection of crime. We ought to realise that our police forces serve a very much wider purpose than that in their service to the community. They are servants of the community, they have the confidence of the community and their fellow citizens   because of the much more positive services which they render and which go beyond the mere prevention and detection of crime. That confidence which our people have in the police forces of this country which, I think it is generally admitted, are the admiration of the whole world, has been built up because of their local character and because of their basis upon the local community. It is important that, whatever changes may have to come, we should try as much as we can to maintain that local character in police forces. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Westbury (Mr. Grimston) emphasised—and it has been emphasised by other speakers—the danger which is inherent in the Bill of a national police force and a dictatorship being secured from it, although I was very glad to hear his disclaimer to the effect that those suggestions did not in any way apply to the present Government or the present Home Secretary. It was a disclaimer which compared well with some of the fantastic and absurd statements which were made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) at the time of the General Election. But, linking up the recollection of those statements with suggestions that have been made of the danger of a national centralised police force, and the possibility of dangerous thoughts being instilled into the minds of people by the connection of these two lines of thought, perhaps it would be as well if some Members on this side of the House did express their strong disapproval of the Bill. My righthon. Friend the Home Secretary, as I understood him, said that this Bill was purely administrative. Frankly, I do not understand that, because I think there are vital principles at stake. It is vital that we should have efficiency and economy in our police forces but it is of much greater importance that we should maintain that tradition of democracy and our democratic way of life, which we have done so much to preserve, and to which we pay so much lip-service occasionally. It is important also that we should maintain its local character and should strive to maintain the functions and powers of local authoriites, consistent with a proper standard of efficiency and economy. Unfortunately, in many directions there are very widespread tendencies to detract from the powers and functions of local  authorities and to destroy their importance and their significance in the minds of local electors and citizens, whom we are ever exhorting to take a wider and deeper interest in their local affairs. How many of us who have taken part in local council elections have not deplored from time to time the apathy which exists in regard to them? How can we expect our citizens to take a real, practical interest in their local councils and the work of their local police forces if the process of taking away the importance and significance of local council work and functions is continued in this way? I have the honour to represent a non-county borough, but there are non-county boroughs and non-county boroughs. My town of St. Albans which, under its old Roman name of Verulamium was the capital city of this land, is very proud of its ancient history. It has a very strong civic consciousness and local tradition. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Maude) was speaking of local feeling, and I think there is something in it, provided you have a proper standard of efficiency. Ours is a non-county borough of well over 30,000 people. We have a separate police force which has always been complimented by His Majesty's inspectors from the Home Office, and has never had serious criticism made about it. I speak not only as the representative of the town but as having served for some time on the watch committee. Having been mayor of the city for a couple of years, I have served as chairman of the watch committee. As a local magistrate, I have observed the work of the police force and, on the county bench, the work of the neighbouring county police. I have also seen the work of the Metropolitan Police, whose area is contiguous with our area, and whose work we are able to observe. I say without a shadow of doubt that our borough police force is more efficient than is the county police force which surrounds them. I feel that this is an instance, and there may be others, to show that the wholesale sweeping away of non-county borough police forces in the way proposed will not serve to increase efficiency but will rather serve to diminish it and take away from local interest and from that confidence between public and police which lies at the very root of ideal police admini-   station. Inevitably it will reduce the informal police knowledge of the antecedents of residents which local police are bound to have, and it will prevent that day-to-day democratic watchfulness which makes for keenness and efficiency in the discharge by the police of their important functions. Above all, it will foster the uneasiness which is already widespread among non-county boroughs at the permanent withdrawal of certain functions by the central Government which the non-county boroughs willingly agreed to for war purposes and during the war, but which will permanently endanger the value and significance of local government and local democracy. I do not deny, and I am sure that no-one would think of denying, that there may be some non-county boroughs with separate police forces which cannot be justified as separate police forces because of their smallness and their inefficiency, perhaps, or at any rate, because of the smallness of their populations and of their establishment. I cannot understand why the findings of the Select Committee of 1932, which set a limit of 30,000 population, cannot be accepted. Of 47 non-county boroughs with police forces, at least 27, by 1931 figures, and I should think probably more by up-to-date figures, had over 30,000. I would ask the Home Secretary if it would not be possible, at any rate, to consider giving larger non-county boroughs the same opportunity as is given to county boroughs in the subsequent Clauses of the Bill to form a voluntary scheme, and if the local circumstances seem to the Home Office to warrant it, the right hon. Gentleman should have power to step in and confirm the scheme, providing that, where it is possible in the circumstances of the particular district, the non-countyboroughs of over 30,000 population should be able to retain their police forces, where these are efficient and there is a long standing local tradition and civic pride, which are worth preserving. I cannot understand why this piecemeal change in local administration is being forced in advance of the wider changes of local government reform which must come when the Boundary Commission gets to work. There is just one final point, a smaller point but a rather important one from the point of view of the policemen them-  selves. When disciplinary action is necessary against a member of a police force which operates under a watch committee the police constable has the right of appeal to the watch committee. In my experience, that right is often exercised and the policeman is able to come and state his case to the watch committee and bring his witnesses. Under the Standing Joint Committee procedure of the county forces, there is no such right of appeal and the chief constable of the county is a dictator. There is no appeal to the Standing Joint Committee. I see the Under-Secretary of State saying that I am mistaken, but at any rate, my information is that in the Standing Joint Committee procedure the chief constable has far greater powers and is much more independent. I ask that some consideration be given to the suggestion that the larger non-county boroughs above 30,000 population be enabled, if they wish to do so, and if it is consistent with efficiency, to maintain their separate local police forces.
