gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I trust that the House will bear with me in what is a very difficult task on the first occasion on which I address it. The other great difficulty under which I labour is that I sit here in the place of one who, throughout many years, won the very highest esteem and regard of Members of this House on all sides. I hope that we shall again see Mr. David Kirkwood in the vicinity of Westminster. I want tonight to deal with the issue of the restoration of the value of the £, a theme which runs through the Gracious Speech and the speeches of hon. Members opposite. It is troubling me and many of my constituents, especially the small business men and traders and the engineering workers on Clydeside, who  have suffered bitterly in the past. What is the value to which the £ is to be restored? Is it the value of what it was 30 years ago or 100 years ago? To what are we going to restore it? When one thinks in terms of the value of the £ and the value of the commodity called money, one must think of it in reference to the things which money buys. The principal commodity that money buys is the labour of the working men and women throughout the country, and if the value of money is to be raised, surely it is logical that the value of the labour of the common people at their various tasks is to be lower. The raising of the one seems to me to lower the value of the other. I hold the view that even today there are not sufficient pounds, particularly among the engineering workers on Clyde-side. Many of those highly skilled workers on Clydeside draw about £6 for a 44 hour week, so there are not too many pounds there. If the value of the £ is restored, we must accept that there are too many pounds in existence. Therefore, the number of pounds must be cut down. Perhaps there are too many pounds in circulation; perhaps there are too many of these units of money. I understand that I must not be controversial and, therefore, I am not going to suggest in what quarters I think there are too many pounds, but I know that among the working class folk whom I represent there are not too many pounds. I would have much preferred that the Gracious Speech and the speeches of hon. Members opposite had contained some suggestions other than the statements about increasing the value of the £—some action to reduce the number of pounds that are drawn out of the economy by institutions and people who seem to have a gargantuan appetite for pounds. But there is, and has been, no mention of that. Had we been returned, we should have taken action to curtail the quantity of pounds that get into the hands of certain sections of the community. I am afraid, from my experience, that if it is the intention of His Majesty's Government to restore the value of the £ by the same technique as has been used in the past, they may create a situation whereby there will be some surplus of labour. Perhaps   the Minister of Labour was thinking in those terms, that as a result of this monetary policy, that there would be some surplus of labour to be directed towards purposes other than those in which it is employed today. Another important point that worries me in connection with an increase in the value of the £ is that the results may be very similar to those we experienced from the same form of policy some 28 years ago. Today, many of our young fellows are becoming apprentices in the engineering trades. That practice decreased when I was a young man because the value of engineering workers had gone down as a result of raising the value of the £. It is to be hoped that the result of this new monetary policy, and the increase in the value of the £ by monetary technique and the action of the Bank of England, will not be to create in the future a fear by parents against putting their boys into industry generally and into the engineering trades particularly. In South Wales, where I was raised, some of us did everything in our power to stop our boys and girls from going into productive industries. We had come to appreciate that because of the increasing value of money the value of the product of our labours had gone down. We struggled hard to see that our children never entered industry of any description. My wife and I made many sacrifices to put our children into other occupations. I am suspicious that the general policy expressed in the Gracious Speech and by the Chancellor of the Exchequer may have this same result again. I hope there is no such intention on the part of the Government and that they will take other measures before there is anything in the nature of a slide downhill into that terrible situation which was arrived at in 1922 as a result of a similar policy. We reached at that time the amazing position that we were said to be overproducing. If we produced less we should all get richer, was the predominant idea. It would seem that if the community produced nothing we should all be millionaires. I hope that we are not going to be steered in that direction. We should rather do everything in our power, by increased production, to pre-  vent this deflation and by, if you will, the diversion into productive industry of certain classes of people employed in certain functions in the community that are perhaps unnecessary. We should also curtail the gargantuan appetites that take so much out of the system of money without making a contribution equal to what they take out.
