gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Far be it from me, as a newcomer to the House, to presume to compliment the previous speaker, the hon. Member for Luton, West (Mr. Sedgemore), but I do so, and no doubt other hon. Members will do so. As I address the House for the first time I am aware that in the representation of my constituency I follow a Member who was held in high esteem on both sides of the House. Mr. Goronwy Roberts was the Member for Caernarvon for over 28 years, during which time he not only served the constituency with diligence but also fulfilled high office of State with eminence. Hon. Members on both sides of the House were, no doubt, gratified to see that the Government have found for him a continuing rôle in another place. Caernarvonshire has been fortunate in being served by a number of distinguished Members over the years. My predecessors include such eminent Liberal members as Sir Goronwy Owen and David Lloyd George. Indeed, the constituency has moved from Liberal, through Labour, to Plaid Cymru in less than one generation. This reflects the radical approach to politics in the area which may itself be the result of continuing social, economic and cultural problems which have persisted under successive Governments. The constituency is part rural, part industrial, with three main centres of population. Caernarvon, Pwllheli and Porthmadog. It must be among the most scenic of constituencies in these islands, including within its bounds the Eryri mountains, dominated by the Snowdon peak, and dropping to a beautiful coastline which includes Criccieth, Abersoch, Aberdaron and Nefyn. Over 85 per cent. of the population speak Welsh, and the Welsh language is the predominant spoken language in the home, the market place, and in business. The main industry of the area was, until recently, slate quarrying, particularly in the Nantlle Valley and Llanberis, which had one of the largest quarries in the   world. Economic problems following the decline of slate are still with us. Today employment is based on light manufacturing industry, agriculture and the tourist trade. The beauty of the area is renowned and is understandably jealously guarded by a strong conservationist lobby. My presence in the Chamber, however, reflects a belief among my constituents that concern must be felt about more than mountains and trees. Concern in Caernarvon today must be about people. Over the past 50 years Caernarvonshire, like most of Wales, has suffered continuing economic problems. Generation after generation of school leavers have had to leave the area to look for work. Unemployment has remained high, and today there is between twice and three times the United Kingdom average. Activity rates are low and personal income per capita is as much as 30 per cent. below the average for Britain. This pattern has brought its social consequences. Families have been broken up, communities have lost their natural leaders, and the social fabric has decayed in many areas. Added to this today is a chronic problem arising from the pressures of holiday-home seekers on the housing market. Tin sheds without any facilities can fetch as much as £6,000 in some parts of my constituency, with the result that young married couples just cannot compete on the depressed wage levels which are prevalent in many areas of Caernarvonshire. These problems are not inevitable, though sometimes they seem to be. Social problems are the result of economic problems. The economic problems, and the failure of successive Governments to come to grips with them, require a political solution. We need in Gwynedd, as in Wales as a whole, a system of government which can concentrate 100 per cent. of its time, its energies and its creative abilities on solving our problems. We respectfully believe that with all the good will in the world this House cannot give Wales the attention which is necessary if these continuing problems are to be overcome. Professor Edward Nevin, Professor of Economics at University College, Swansea, and a foremost authority on the  Welsh economy, wrote some time ago that the Welsh economy is drifting not because the crew are fast asleep, but because the boat has no engine, and the navigator has no map. We desperately need positive economic planning. The nearest thing to an economic plan for Wales which any Government has published was ""Wales: The Way Ahead"" Cmnd. 3334, 1967. It was a pathetically inadequate document. It estimated that the number of new jobs which the then Government had to create in Wales was only 15,000. This was at a time when there were over 40,000 unemployed in Wales, when the coal industry in Wales was in the middle of its run down, which saw the numbers employed in the industry in Wales drop from 100,000 to 36,000. It was also at a time when even the so-called ""National Plan"" estimated that Wales had a labour reserve of 97,000, many of whom could be brought into useful employment. The total failure of ""Wales: The Way Ahead"" to appreciate the significance of the economic crisis in Wales has been shown by research paper No. 8 of the Kilbrandon Report which estimated that in 1971 Wales needed 205,000 new jobs to reach acceptable economic targets. We need more than an accurate appraisal of the situation in Wales. We need a strategy showing how the required jobs will be created. Plaid Cymru, in its economic plan for Wales, published in 1970, and which was kindly received by the Press and specialist reviewing media, advocated a system of growth centres strategically located in Wales to meet the requirements of each area. These growth centres would include a number of industrial parks, at which the necessary facilities for modern industry, in terms of utilities, services, communication links, specialist supplies and technical educational support, could be developed. From my work in industry over the past 10 years, in my rôle in economic planning as well as in my work as a financial controller, I know that these are the things that must be provided if we are to stimulate self-regenerative economic growth in a balanced manner throughout Wales. I appeal to the new Government to give top priority to a Welsh economic plan, and to set up a Welsh development authority, with appropriate financial support and the backing of legislation, to get   on with the business of dragging the Welsh economy from its present depressed state. However, we need more than plans and public agencies. The sad fact is that in 1971 the Welsh Council published a document entitled ""An Economic Strategy for North-West Wales"". Its recommendations were similar to those of the Plaid Cymru economic plan, so far as they went. I say a sad fact, because no significant action has followed that report. Our need in Wales is not only the power to draw up effective plans but also the power to put such plans into action. I am not an advocate of the conspiracy theory of history. I do not believe for one moment that members of any Government have deliberately tried to inflict economic harm on Wales. Of course they have not. The truth is that within a centralised unitary State enough time and attention cannot possibly be given to solving the problems of an area such as Wales. Our condition today is the result of a systematic failure, and it is the system of Government which must be changed if a solution is to be forthcoming. This is where the Kilbrandon Report offers some hope. An elected legislative assembly for Wales is not everything that Plaid Cymru believes to be necessary for Wales to be governed effectively, but it is a start, a step in the right direction. We as a party are willing to co-operate with everyone to make a success of such an assembly. My regret is that the Government have failed in the Gracious Speech to give any commitment on the establishment of an assembly. The reply by the Secretary of State for Wales earlier today to a Question on the subject has confirmed our gravest fears that the Government's filibustering approach to the matter will do Wales a grave disservice. We are told that Britain today is in a state of economic crisis. We in Wales, and particularly in Caernarvon, have lived in a permanent state of economic crisis for the past 50 years. Today our backs are to the wall. In a time of crisis people of different political persuasions often pull together. That happened in this Chamber in the 1930s and during the war, and it was suggested earlier in the debate that it should happen today. In Wales, out of economic, social and cultural crisis has grown a new political expression, cutting across old party loyalties. There is in Wales a new young generation which will not stand idly by, spectators at their own funeral. They have the ability, the dedication and the capacity for hard work by which our problems can be overcome. They also have a sense of purpose, something which seems to have disappeared in the post-imperial twilight of this obsolete British State. If successive Governments in London cannot solve our problems we should do the job ourselves. All we ask is a system of government which will allow us to concentrate our energies to this end. It is in the interest of England as well as Wales that this be done. I appeal that within this Parliament we see established and functioning in Cardiff and Edinburgh a system of Government which can respond to the needs of Wales and Scotland.
