gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I pay tribute to the excellent speech which we heard from the hon. Member for Cardigan (Mr. Howell). His eloquence is typical of the Welsh people. I am sure that the House is all the better for his presence. I am certain that we shall be hearing much more of him in future, and that he will have many opportunities to push the cause of Welsh agriculture. I now turn my attention to the speech of the right hon. Member for Lowestoft (Mr. Prior). It seemed that some feeling of relief and some air of abandon had come into his speech. I am sorry that he is not here to listen to my remarks. It was obvious that the cares of office and power had gone. That was the only way in which I could possibly explain to myself the flippancy with which he treated the serious matter of the supply and the price of the nation's food. To me that is a real problem. I can understand some members of the previous Government not understanding the gravity of the problem of the nation's food so well as my right hon. and hon. Friends. That is because food is such a vital part of the expenditure of the low-paid workers and those with fixed incomes. I can understand that members of the previous Government do not understand the problem of making ends meet and of making the money last so that people can buy the essentials for their family. They have not known what it is to struggle, as have some of my right hon. and hon. Friends and myself, to buy essentials in order to keep body and soul together. A 53 per cent. increase in the nation's food bill does not matter very much if a person has a large and real income. It was with some degree of astonishment that I saw the right hon. Gentleman pointing his finger at the Government benches as if it was the Labour Party that had been in control for three and a half years, and not the Conservatives. I found it difficult to understand that the right hon. Gentleman could believe that the common agricultural policy had no bearing on the matter. The right hon. Gentleman referred to our manifesto and spoke about what my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister had said in a television broadcast. I never had the pleasure of watching that broadcast, because I was busy electioneering. When the right hon. Gentleman was talking about those matters his memory must have been terribly short. For three and a half years his Government were in office, in which time the price of the nation's food rose by 53 per cent. That is nothing to be amused about, but most of the Opposition Front Bench seemed to be very amused when the right hon. Gentleman was speaking. An increase  of 53 per cent. is tremendous. Does the right hon. Gentleman believe that the common agricultural policy had no bearing on that increase? I readily recognise that world prices have a bearing on the prices which we must pay in the shops for food and for anything else which we must buy. However, there are some positive factors that have had a bearing in pushing up prices to a higher level than the world price of certain commodities. The headlong rush of the Leader of the Opposition into the Common Market was such a factor. I cannot believe, had the Labour Party been in Government—despite the jibes that are often made at my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister by Opposition Members about his ideas on the Common Market—that my right hon. and hon. Friends would have ever accepted such terms of entry, which have had such a disastrous effect on the price of food. It was the Leader of the Opposition who inflicted those terms on the British people by quickly pushing us with guillotines and other pressures into the Common Market. Let us analyse the situation. It is all right for the right hon. Member for Lowestoft to talk as he did, but he knows as well as anyone else that the common agricultural policy means taxes upon our food. That is a simple factor, which is understood by all Members. All Members will agree that, despite all the efforts of various Governments to ensure that more food is grown in Britain, and to expand the nation's food industry, it is clear that even in our wildest dreams we cannot hope to produce the bulk of the food which we require. It is clear that we must import it from abroad. It seems that the common agricultural policy is designed as a protectionist policy for the French farmer, with little consideration or thought for the British housewife, the British working people, or working people anywhere in Europe. It is designed only for the protection of the French farmer. It behoves my right hon. Friends to see that the situation is quickly altered. We should get back to buying the nation's food in the world's cheapest markets. I do not accept that the Governments of Australia, New Zealand and Canada have turned their backs on us. If they are beginning to do   so it is because of the despair and frustration caused by the policies assumed by the previous Government, including the common agricultural policy. I can understand that they see no future in continuing to bother about our little island. I am equally certain that if my right hon. Friend makes the correct approaches to the Commonwealth countries we shall once again be able to buy our food in the cheapest markets of the world. No one, in his wildest dreams—I am not in a fantasy world like the right hon. Member for Lowestoft—imagines that whatever my right hon. Friend can do it will wipe out the 53 per cent. increase in the price of our food which has obtained since the previous Government came to power in July 1970, but it may well have the effect of bringing prices down a bit, or at least stabilising the situation. As things have been going in the past three and a half years there has been no hope at all for the British housewife. Apart from food taxes, which the French insist we must pay to protect their farmers from the cheaper food we can buy outside the Market, there is the other utter stupidity of the intervention boards, again giving great protection to the French farmer at the expense of the British housewife and taxpayer. We pay both ways. We all know that under the capitalist economy when there is a shortage and demand is high, as is the case with feeding stuffs, prices rise. Under the old-fashioned capitalist economy, when there was a glut prices went down. Let the right hon. Gentleman explain what logic there can possibly be in a situation in which, when there is a glut of a commodity, the intervention boards step in, hoard the surplus and even destroy it so as to maintain the prices of essential foodstuffs. We all remember the French butter scandal. The Market had to sell it wherever it could outside at the cheapest possible price. It was sold to the Russians. What happened? The French farmer still had to be paid his price, and the difference between that price and the price at which it was sold to the Russians was made up by the taxpayers of the Common Market. We had to make a considerable contribution from Government funds to offset the difference. This is stupid economics. It is nonsensical. Let the right hon. Member for Lowestoft—I am glad to see that he has just returned to the Chamber—explain that to me. What sense or logic can there be in such a system when the housewife pays the increased price in the shop and the taxpayer foots the bill through taxation? In the last Parliament I mentioned another strange phenomenon of Common Market policy The price charged for a commodity throughout the Common Market is based upon the price of the production of the most inefficient—the people who produce by the most old-fashioned methods and whose costs are therefore high. Prices for the entire Common Market are fixed with reference to the inefficient producer. Then there is a tax, in addition, to protect such people from imported goods. The best illustration of this stupid Common Market policy is the simple orange. Oranges are produced in the Common Market only in Sicily, which is probably a backward part of Italy. They are produced inefficiently. We take less than half of 1 per cent. of our total orange imports from Italy. The bulk of our imports come from places such as Israel, Africa and Spain. The price we pay for oranges imported from outside the Common Market is based upon the price of the inefficiently produced Italian orange. As a result of this pernicious tax, we shall be paying over the odds for all the oranges we import from other countries. This applies to all other foods. Having dealt my blows, good-naturedly but firmly, to the right hon. Gentleman—we are all protagonists here —I come to my right hon. and hon. Friends who are dealing with agriculture and the problem of prices. This is not a subject that will wait. I realise that we have an unusual House, with no party having an overall majority. There are problems in getting legislation through. I believe that there is enough common sense in the House to enable the Government to introduce radical policies that will reduce or stabilise food prices. I appeal to my right hon. Friend quickly to deal with this Common Market question—to go to Brussels and say, ""We shall not tolerate the absolute injustice of the common agricultural policy. We must go back to no taxes on food and to buying our food in the cheapest   markets in the world."" If my right hon. Friend does that and does it quickly, I believe that we shall have a great deal of support from all parts of the House.
