gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye in this debate. This is my maiden speech. I had intended to speak in earlier debates, when the House returned after the general election. I wanted to speak in the Budget debate but I found myself sufficiently at variance with the view being expressed by Opposition Front Bench speakers to have departed from the tradition of the House and been controversial. Therefore I did not speak at that time. I am aware of the Labour men and others who have sat here before me, perhaps even on this Bench, since the turn of the century. There was Mr. Tommy Cape, who was elected in 1918. On 24 February 1919 he spoke about the Government's proposals on the Coal Industry Commission Bill. Tommy Cape, who was elected by the miners, was able to set a clear objective for himself in the time that he was a Member of the House. He sought the nationalisation of the mining industry, the six-hour day for the miner, and the improvement of miners' working conditions throughout this land. Indeed, the objectives that Tommy Cape set for himself in his lifetime were realised when the mines were taken into public ownership in 1947. In 1945, the young Lieutenant Peart, fresh from the battlefields of Europe, came to this place. On 20 August he made his maiden speech on the occasion of the Gracious Speech. He set for himself other objectives, one of which was to see peace develop in this country and in Europe. His objective was international peace. Certainly, with the elevation of Fred Peart to the House of Lords in January 1976, it could be said that he saw some of his objectives realised. In 1945, referring to the prospective legislation mentioned in the Gracious Speech, he said:  the success of that legislation depends on sound and healthy international relations … In conjunction with … all nations we must plan a new world.""—[Official Report, 20 August 1945; Vol. 413, c. 357, 360.] That was a fine objective. Fred Peart was subsequently to become the Minister   or Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in two Governments, the Leader of the House, and Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Lords. I am sure that he now feels that he has seen his objectives realised. In 1976 a new Member of Parliament was elected, following a highly important by-election in the Workington constituency. I refer to Mr. Richard Page. On 30 November he rose, as a Conservative Member of Parliament, to make his maiden speech in the debate on the economy. He proposed the regeneration of British industry through reductions in taxation and the restoration of a free market. Although I was unable to agree with much of what he said in the House, let me take this opportunity of wishing him the best of luck in all his future endeavours. That brings me to this debate. I, too, come to the House with clear objectives. I have been able to establish them for myself within the confines of the philosophy that I hold and that I hope is held by members of the Opposition in common with me. I refer to the philosophy of Socialism. In his book "" In Place of Fear "", dealing with democratic Socialism, Aneurin Bevan said:  The capacity for emotional concern for individual life is the most significant quality of a civilised human being. The problem is that the civilised human being is permanently and regularly being confronted by challenges of our time that cheapen life—the challenge of advertisement and the world of advertisement that has glamourised materialism at a cost to human life; the challenge of advancing technology that is inclined to discard the value of the human contribution and renders human effort too often superfluous; the challenge presented by the economics of the free market that turns one man against another, one creed against another, and one nation against another. Those are all challenges. Yet it is in a climate of those challenges that we, as Socialists—and I in the light of my objectives—must try to raise the threshold of respect for life in this generation. That is the principal reason why I support the Bill. At the root of the Socialism that is held in common by the Opposition, we have a belief that incites and inspires us to campaign on the international platforms of human rights. When we stand in our constituencies or move into the Lobbies as a result of our commitment to vote against the reintroduction of hanging—I feel sure that all members of the Opposition will refuse to support a Bill to reintroduce hanging—we shall do so in the light of our understanding of our responsibilities to human, indeed, all, life. When we stand on platforms in our constituencies and demand that people feel with us against blood sports and cruel sports, we do so because we understand that these are real issues, they are moral issues, and they are inseparable from the very great and important issue that is being put before us today. When I think that earlier this week there were Labour Members who had considered banding together perhaps even to obstruct the Bill as it was put before the House, I am saddened, because I believe that comfort and the convenience of some forms of abortion are being put before the moral issue of the preservation of human life in this society. When I think that the mighty Labour conference—which a few of us on the Labour Benches believe must play a more important part in the minds of those who sit in the Parliamentary Labour Party—was responsible for carrying a resolution which, in my view, would have liberalised even more the principle of abortion in this country, I am saddened again. I hope that one day in the Labour conference we shall be able to reverse such resolutions. Before the debate is closed at, perhaps, 4 p.m. today, I think that what happens during an abortion—particularly one that takes place after 20 weeks—should be brought to the attention of this House. Instead of going to the lobbies which have a vested interest on each side, over the last 36 hours I have telephoned numbers of people in the medical profession in London in order to ask them what were their personal views on abortion. I was surprised to have referred to me stories of children—foetuses—that were born live after 22 weeks and that had lain on the slab after a Caesarean section operation. I was told that if the bag were   left unopened it would be 10 or 15 minutes before the heartbeat would stop. I was also told that, in the event of the bag being opened, the child—the foetus—could be seen to breathe and heard to cry. I would say, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that this cannot be right, and that some of the operations that have been described to me during the last 36 hours cannot be permissible in a reasonable and civilised society. The law has become an ass, and I call upon my colleagues on the Labour Benches to join with others in the Lobby today in asking that the Bill be given the Second Reading that it so preciously requires. If there are aspects of the Bill that some hon. Members feel they are not able to swallow today, let them be willing to participate in the machinery of the Committee, which, if we are fortunate, will review it, so that it can come before the House at some time in the future in a form that is acceptable to what I believe to be the great majority of the British people. I believe that it is the objective of the generation of people, particularly younger people, who are today taking their place in this House, to set down new markers for the future. Those new markers are about creating a new threshold of respect for human life.
