gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
For some twenty years I have been a trade union official, and during that time I have risen to speak on many hundreds of occasions, nearly always with a measure of confidence. This evening my feelings in addressing the House for the first time are more of diffidence than of confidence. I mean that quite sincerely as a tribute to the House. After all, there can hardly be a more revered establishment in the country. To a marked degree the experience is awe-inspiring. Nevertheless, I have two points to make, for as a full-time trade union official I have been the means of inducing industrialists from the Midlands and London to move into certain so-called Development Areas. My experience   has been that when we get the factory, the plant and the workers—even the key workers—one substantial problem remains. We have found this problem to a marked degree insoluble. It is what about higher management? We must recognise that these people are an integral part of industry. If the economics are to be properly balanced, we must cater for them, and it is not very easy to do so. As far as I can see, there is nothing in the Bill which offers more inducement to this class of worker. I do not want to hammer the point too hard, and I will turn to the second point I wish to make—the employers who are by no means as scrupulous in their relationship with the workpeople as they should be. I have in my possession evidence which purports to show that employers in Lancashire are telling people there, ""Unless you conform to a pattern laid down by us, we will remove our factory back to the Midlands."" The pattern to which they refer is unacceptable not merely to shop stewards but to the accredited trade union officials. That kind of industrial practice undermines the whole structure of the Bill. I therefore feel that much more than gentle persuasion may be necessary if the Bill is to be a success. I am among the class of people mentioned by my right hon. Friend the Member for Llanelly (Mr. J. Griffiths), for I was driven by poverty to seek industrial rehabilitation in some other part of the country. I make no other reference to my own experience, beyond saying that at that time there was a family of three—my wife, my son, Emlyn, and I. My son Emlyn today is an honours graduate of one of the finest universities in the country. His brother, Michael, is following him. Many a time I have asked myself this question: would these lads have had the opportunity to make use of their ability had I remained an unemployed person? It occurs to me very forcibly that in the pockets of unemployment which exist in this country there must be quite a number of Emlyns and Michaels, even today, when there is a measurable degree of unemployment in our midst but the country is screaming for technicians and technologists. I do not think that we can afford to leave these people unable  to make use of whatever talent they possess. I return for a moment to my own constituency, in which the employers' observation has been made to which I have just referred. At the moment over 800 people are registered as unemployed in my constituency and by March of next year 24 mills, affecting 2,200 people, will be closed down. We could easily be in a very similar position in Burnley to the dismal position outlined by my hon. Friend the Member for Nelson and Colne (Mr. S. Silverman). I feel very strongly that something more than simple persuasion will be necessary, notwithstanding the views expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Dorset, South (Viscount Hinchingbrooke). I am certain that the Bill is of far greater import than is suggested merely by figures. May I be pardoned for saying that the greatest indictment of the years which I spent as an unemployed person was not that of trying to exist on 28s. a week. I do not think that that is the greatest indictment of permitting a man to be unemployed. In my opinion, the greatest indictment is that day follows day, week follows week, month follows month, and sometimes year follows year, during which society has no room for you. That is one of the greatest indictments. My wife assisted me to canvass during the recent election in Burnley. In the evenings, while we were enjoying a cup of tea and exchanging our greetings, she often said, ""Some of the people in Burnley are terribly worried about this problem."" My wife could well understand it, because the first four years of her married life were spent in similar circumstances. She told me that these people are unable to sleep at night because they know that their mills will have to be closed. It is only when we begin to see the human aspect that we see the problem as it should be seen. In a maiden speech one is commended to be non-controversial and brief. One day, perhaps, I shall have the opportunity to reply to the noble Lord the Member for Dorset, South. Before I conclude, may I say that I regard the opportunity of this expression as a privilege. I turn to you, Mr. Speaker, and thank you for allowing me to make it.
