gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I rise to speak in the House for the first time, I ask for the indulgence which, I   am assured, is always given to hon. Members at their first attempt. I feel very honoured to follow Lord Eccles, who represented Chippenham for nineteen years with such distinction, and I will do my best to be a worthy successor. I know that I am a very lucky man, because I represent a glorious stretch of Wiltshire countryside where my family have lived for many generations. I was born in Chippenham and have lived there ever since, and any person would feel happy—and indeed proud—to represent in the House of Commons the people among whom he lives and works in his daily life. The oldest and largest industry in my constituency is, of course, agriculture, with the emphasis on dairy farming, and agriculture is very much part of the Wiltshire way of life. I must say that the small dairy farmers have not been having an easy time of late, and attention will have to be given to their problems. Some of the loveliest villages in England lie in my constituency, and we are anxious to do all we can to preserve this beauty for future generations. But agriculture is not, of course, our only industry. Many hon. Members will know and will have enjoyed the Wiltshire bacon that comes from Calne. During the by-election I visited engineering factories, a large electronic company, paper mills and a variety of small industries. In the town of Chippenham itself we have, and we are proud to have, a large engineering factory, Westinghouse Brake and Signal Company, which now covers over 30 acres and where nearly 5,000 people are employed. I must say in passing that those of us who live in Chippenham feel strongly that it would be desirable for the balance of the economy of the town for another major industry to be brought there, and recent events, which I will mention in a moment, have strengthened our views in this respect. The reason why I feel that it is particularly appropriate to speak in a debate on unemployment in my maiden speech is because the recent by-election at Chippenham was fought in the shadow of a redundancy problem. After many years' experience of full employment it came as a considerable shock to Chippenham to find that a fairly large  reduction was being made in the labour force in the one large industry in the town. The management were carrying through the necessary reorganisation to meet future competition, and the factory is also affected by the plans which are under consideration for the modernisation of the railways. Chippenham was thus being sharply reminded how the pattern of industry is affected by change. I am sure we all realise that this process of change must take place if the country is to keep up to date. Nevertheless, it causes very real human problems, as hon. Members know only too well. I say, therefore, to hon. Members who represent constituencies in the north of England and in Scotland that I can sympathise with them in their problems and I know equally well that they will understand that it is not only in the north of the country that these problems arise as trading and industrial circumstances change. I would therefore ask the Government to examine urgently the whole question of providing better and more comprehensive unemployment benefits to help those who have served their employers loyally for many years and who, through no fault of their own, or, indeed, of their employers, must change their jobs. I have made a short study of the benefits which are provided by the countries of the European Economic Community and I am sure that we can learn a lot from them in this respect. The countries with the lowest unemployment figures, as one might expect—Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands—are those which operate the most generous schemes because there are a greater number of contributors per unemployed. In France and Luxembourg the benefits are somewhat similar to our National Assistance in that they are not derived from insurance but are guaranteed by law. In the other countries there are insurance schemes which are financed by employer and employee, except in Italy where the worker does not contribute. In four countries the redundant worker receives a benefit based on a percentage of his former wage, and in certain cases it is as high as 90 per cent. Another side of the redundancy problem concerns retraining, and I know that the Government are considering legislation to improve industrial training. I also   know from my personal experience, during and since the by-election, that a high proportion of these who either wrote to me or came to see me were people aged over 45. A difficult and special problem arises here. I realise that employers may be reluctant to retrain people who are approaching retirement age because, from a purely economic point of view, it may not seem attractive to them. There are, however, many really active men who have worked hard all their lives, in many cases doing skilled jobs, who still have a great contribution to make provided they can receive suitable retraining. I am certain that we owe a duty to help these people and the Government must assist industry financially in their retraining. Although we must do a great deal for the training of young people, we must never forget the problems which industrial changes bring to the older people. I could not end this speech without adding a few words on the subject about which I feel deeply and which, I believe, to be near the heart of the matter in our society today. I refer to industrial relations. One may have in one's industry the most modern plant and machinery and the finest equipment in the world, but if one's industrial relations are bad, that industry will fail. Good industrial relations demand a high standard of enlightened leadership, from the managing director downwards, and a belief in the importance of the individual. It must be realised, however, that good leadership implies reasonable discipline on the part of everyone concerned. Recent events have brought home to us all how much damage and misery can be caused by a small minority who have no real understanding of industrial discipline. This creates a problem which the country must solve as a matter of national urgency.
