gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you for calling me to make my maiden speech, Mr. Deputy Speaker. It is especially appropriate for me to speak about youth and unemployment because in the city of Coventry, once the richest working-class city in the country with two thirds of the work force in manufacturing industry, the prospects for our school leavers are now bleak. Only one in 10 of those leaving the fifth form last summer have found work. In a city that was built on engineering, only 243 out of 5,000 who left school this summer have found apprenticeships. For the vast majority there is no prospect of real work under this Government. There is no way out of the dole queue. Such a prediction of a national spectre of mass unemployment, stretching for five years or more in front of our school leavers, is not in any sense an invention of Labour Members— it is admitted by the leading advisers to the Prime Minister. Speaking on 3 March 1982, Professor Sir Douglas Hague predicted that there would be no significant upturn in western economies before the 1990s, and possibly not before the end of the century. Another leading Government supporter, Sir Terence Beckett, the director general of the CBI, wrote in The Times on 5 July admitting that only about one quarter of this year's school leavers would find a job. What a crushing indictment of the profit system that the Government defend that mass unemployment is stretching towards the end of the century. I speak today as the youngest Labour Member elected in last month's general election. That gives me a special responsibility in this place to champion the rights, and to give voice to the hopes and aspirations of millions of young workers as they face the mid-1980s and that spectre of mass unemployment. I willingly shoulder that responsibility. Who would have thought four years ago, when the Tories won the general election, that a party supposedly standing for classic Friedmanite views, supposedly resolutely opposed to intervention by the state, a party whose motto is, ""Leave it to the market,"" would today be weeks away from implementing a scheme costing £ 1,000 million specifically designed for the state to attempt to regulate the transition from school to work? Yet that £ 1,000 million is a paltry amount compared to the costs of the avalanche of redundancies over which the Government have presided— £ 17,000 million is spent annually to maintain the victims of Tory monetarism. Now, a further £ 1,000 million is to be spent to remove 500,000 teenagers from the dole figures. Yet so serious is the position facing those 500,000 school leavers, that the Government have been forced to   recognise the total failure of their much vaunted ""private market mechanism"" to supply real jobs to our youth. The youth training scheme is proof of that recognition. The establishment of a second generation YOP scheme— the misnamed youth training scheme— is admission in deed — which counts far more than words — that mass unemployment is projected to be with us for a decade or more under the present way that society is organised. It is an admission that British capitalism, the system of private profit and market forces, so loudly defended by the Government cannot organise society to take advantage of the productive forces of the factories, the industries, the science and the techniques that are available to provide the goods and services that people need and to use all the talents of working people to produce them. The Government have recognised that market forces can no longer supply sufficient jobs. What changed the attitude of the Tory party during the past four years? What changed it from a party which, in 1979, in one of its first measures as a Government, announced a cut of £ 28 million in YOP financing, to a party today forced against its will to spend £ 1,000 million in additional funding for youth unemployment? The principal answer is the events of the summer of 1981— the riots on the streets of Liverpool, London, Manchester and other major cities— a desperate action by tens of thousands of teenagers to draw attention to the poverty, despair, demoralisation, harassment and anger of being young and unemployed under a Tory Government. That statement does not condone rioting. Such actions do not provide a solution to the problems of unemployment. But unlike the real organisers of those riots, who sit on the Government Benches, the Opposition understand the cause of such frustration. The problems facing youth, which prompted tens of thousands on to the streets two years ago, can be solved only by a fundamental reorganisation of society along socialist lines. Despite the introduction of the scheme, the problems of unemploment, bad housing and falling living standards remain. Under the Government we shall see a repeat of the explosions of 1981. The scheme was not born out of an altruistic gesture by the political representatives of the ruling class— it was conceived as a policing measure to keep the youth off the streets and out of the dole figures. It has nothing whatsoever to do with giving young workers the opportunity to make a genuine contribution to society. The training content of the scheme is negligible. The prospect of a job for two thirds of its entrants remains a cruel myth. The allowance paid to YOP and now to YTS trainees has been frozen since January 1982 at a paltry £ 25 a week. That is only £ 1· 50 a week greater than the members of the Cabinet each spent in one night on dinner when they sat down on the eve of the Gracious Speech. Allowances set at such a low level are a calculated and cynical attempt to drive down the general level of young workers' wages. Refusing to raise YTS allowances, as the Secretary of State and the Minister have done, and the speculation emanating from the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer that cuts in unemployment benefit have been discussed, are despicable attacks on the poorest section of the working class. In recent years, the Government have told us that workers were pricing themselves out of jobs. Now, they intend to attempt to price workers out of the dole queue. Only 10,300 youths began apprenticeships in engineering in 1982 compared with 14,000 in 1981 and 25,000 in the peak years of the 1960s and 1970s. The total number of apprenticeships in manufacturing industry has slumped from 242,000 in 1967 to 123,000 in 1982. Similarly, the number of youth trainees who went through an industrial training for semi-skilled or unskilled jobs in manufacturing has fallen from 201,000 in 1967 to only 56,000 in 1982. As apprenticeships and industrial training places disappear, the Government hope that YTS will emerge as the norm for school leavers sounds the death knell for genuine apprenticeships. Whereas apprenticeships usually gave a good prospect of a steady job in years gone by, if the YTS scheme remains in its present form it will lead straight back to the dole for the majority who participate. There are many well documented cases of employers scrapping first-year apprenticeships. Instead of taking on one first-year apprentice at £ 40 a week plus the national insurance contribution, an employer can take on four, five or even 10 YOP or YTS trainees who will cost him next to nothing because the MSC pays their allowances. Then, at the end of the year, the boss picks the best trainee, offers him or her a second-year apprenticeship at reduced rates of pay and takes on 10 more ""freebies"". That is slave labour. Despite the pleas of Sir Terence Beckett in The Times that such descriptions are ""malicious"" and that Employers are putting a lot into the scheme, and it is costing them money"", I am not the only one to consider that analysis to be false. It was stated blatantly by David Young, chairman of the Manpower Services Commission, in the October 1982 edition of the big business magazine, The Director: You now have the opportunity to take on young men and women, train them and let them work for you almost entirely at our expense, and then decide whether or not to employ them"". There are always plenty of unscrupulous employers eager to take that opportunity, such as a Mr. Birks from Braintree who, in a letter to the Financial Times of 12 April 1983, described how, after losing his driving licence, he needed a chauffeur. He said: The problem, however, was severe … how to afford one? Enter stage right, a fairy godmother in the form of the Manpower Services Commission. One can employ a school leaver on the Youth Opportunities Scheme Youth Opportunities the cost of whom is reimbursed by the Manpower Services Commission. All I had to do was to take on a YOP as a personal assistant who could drive and my problems were solved. This individual admits that he is open to cries of exploitation or abuse of the system. Yet after describing in his letter how his own YOP learnt how business is run, he said: Consequently, if I picked a reasonably bright YOP to start with, I should end up with a very useful person indeed. Presumably, if he had not picked a reasonably bright one, he could have got rid of him because there are thousands more where that one came from. At the end of Mr. Birk's letter, the message becomes plain. He said: I would suggest to all business men who cover a considerable annual mileage that they seriously consider taking on a chauffeur. Even if they don't get a YOP, the employment of a suitable school leaver at today's labour prices must pay for itself in productivity terms alone, without considering the benefits of health that the removal of the strain of driving can bring. The incidental benefit at a national level in the reduction of unemployment, and the creation of a useful group of young people with an overview of business can only be to the advantage of all of us. I quoted that example at length to show that the quest for profit will exploit the YOP and in future the YTS. Far   from being an isolated example, the YOP has been used to replace existing workers and jobs, to lower the wages of young workers and to pave the way for the abolition of time-served apprenticeships. This Tory Government inflict the deep wound of mass unemployment on youth and then offer a sticking plaster in the form of YTS. They offer no future for the 500.000 unemployed under the age of 19. The Government's attempt to mask the inability of this system to offer jobs to this generation of school leavers will be seen as a vain attempt at camouflage. In the YTS they have created a scheme of educational dustbins for dumping this generation of youth, but their attempts will not remain unchallenged. Some trade .unions have already announced their opposition and will fight to maintain their existing training arrangements and trade union rates for the job. The organisation of hundreds of thousands of young people on these schemes into the trade union movement is beginning. When in January 1982 the Secretary of State for Unemployment was arguing for a £ 15 a week scheme and the loss of supplementary benefit for any 16-year-old who refused a YTS place, within one month the youth trade union rights campaign, alongside the Labour party Young Socialists, organised a mass rally of 3,000 young people on a Wednesday at the Festival Hall in London. I was privileged to take part in that event, and on the same day more than 1,300 youngsters lobbied the House. A delegation met the Secretary of State and the MSC director of special programmes to warn of youth anger at these proposals. The Secretary of State's answer to the demands of that lobby for decent allowances, holidays, travel concessions and so on was to castigate the organisers as guilty of raising wild expectations among youth. What were those wild expectations, which have gained tremendous support among YOP workers? They were a 35-hour week, trade union rates of pay starting at about £ 55 a week, free travel to work, five weeks' paid holiday a year and a guaranteed job at the end. Those are minimal expectations compared to the lifestyle of hon. Members, certainly compared to the lifestyle of the hon. Member for Hove (Mr. Sainsbury) and the two other members of his family who run Sainsburys and receive more in one week from shares and other income— approximately £ 160,000 — than a YTS trainee would receive in 130 years. Surely it is a minimal expectation to ask for decent working allowances, for decent hours of work and so on. That campaign will gain increasing support as trade unions begin the process of unionisation drives amongst the young people on the YTS. Thousands of YOPsters have been recruited by Labour Party Young Socialists into membership of the Transport and General Workers Union, the General, Municipal, Boilermakers and Allied Workers Union, the National Union of Public Employees and other non-general trade unions. A renewed and public commitment by the Labour party to organise the unionisation of those young exploited workers would be a major factor in winning the enthusiastic support of young people for Socialism. The Minister's contribution to today's debate leaves unresolved the question, ""What comes after YTS?"" What prospects are there for trainees at the end of a 12-month course? There are already 5 million people on the dole. Investment fell by 36 per cent. under the Tory Government. Yet money is not in short supply. For every pound employers invested in Britain they found £2·50 to  invest in South Africa, Korea, Argentina, Braz:1 and other countries where super profits can be made through the enforced absence of trade unions and where wage levels can be kept low at the barrel of a gun. For British industry to regain its competitiveness against the capitalist countries of Europe, Japan and America would take an investment of £ 150 billion. With profit rates at one seventh of the value of three decades ago, big business will not invest to create jobs or to produce goods that the low living standards of workers will not permit them to buy. The leaders of the Tory party know this. They are aware of the gigantic battles that loom ahead as they attempt to drive down the wages even further in a vain attempt to restore the profits of their big business backers. They have invented the YTS to cheapen the labour of workers, not to provide decent training for jobs their system has no intention of offering. Accusations will no doubt follow that there is no money to pay for a programme of real jobs for unemployed workers and for youth. Such accusations will be rubbish. In Britain today 400,000 building workers are without jobs but millions of homes need repair and modernisation. Sufficient materials are stockpiled to build a city at least the size of Derby. Capitalism keeps those needs, those materials and the skills of the working people apart . That story could be repeated for every industry in the country. The political representatives of the capitalist class, the Tory party, are the real Luddites of the 20th century. They have destroyed steel plants, car plants and engineering facilities, because their society cannot use the production that those plants would generate. Their method of organising society wastes 30 per cent. of industrial capacity and keeps 20 per cent. of workers on the dole. Reorganising society along Socialist lines, with democratic control and management by millions of working people over a planned economy, would release undreamt of potential, bringing into play the lost 30 per cent. of production that is destroyed by Conservative policies and mass unemployment. That 30 per cent. of production would be worth an estimated £ 65 billion, sufficient to guarantee a national minimum wage of £ 100 and a 35-hour week for all workers, a 50 per cent. increase in all pensions and supplementary benefits, a 25 per cent. increase in NHS and education spending and a doubling of house building. All that could come about just from the lost wealth from production that is being destroyed by unemployment under the Tories. That would be only the beginning of the wealth that Socialism and the rational planning of the economy would bring once the chaos of private ownership was transformed into a society that organised for need and not for profit. In conclusion, I issue an appeal and a warning. The appeal is to the hundreds of thousands of young people in Britain whose statistics show that they are disillusioned because of the lack of hope of any change in their prospects. Abstentions from voting at the general election increased among the youth, particularly among unemployed youth, and were probably the highest among unemployed black youth. The responsibility for regaining the confidence of young workers rests on the shoulders of the Labour and trade union movement and the campaigns that we organise to defend the conditions, wages and jobs of young workers. I appeal to youth not to despair, not to be cynical and imagine that democratic politics is a waste of time.   Join us in the struggle to transform society along Socialist lines so that the needs of people can be supplied by the fair allocation of resources. I issue a warning to the Government. Do not be misled by the siren voices of the media into believing that somehow in the 1980s we are witnessing the creation of a Right-wing generation of youth or that the Labour movement is demoralised or weak when faced with another term of Tory rule. Membership of the trade unions still stands at over 10 million. With the families of those members, we have an army of 35 million people. Our labour produces the wealth, which the Govenment's capitalist society squanders on useless weapons of nuclear destruction, on tax cuts to the super-rich, on stockpiles of food at a time of growing poverty and on keeping 5 million people unemployed. As, in the 1980s, society approaches a crossroads, the Socialist programme will gain significant support. In the beginning, the Government having invented various schemes, there may be a few who will feel grateful for £ 25 a week on YTS, faced with the choice of a little on YTS or nothing but the dole. But as the realisation grows that the vast majority are being trained for the dole, the cynicism and resentment of youth on YTS will increase. Through those schemes the Government will create a new youthful army of trade unionists and Socialists who will fight to transform society along Socialist lines, who will fight for a future that will give them dignity and hope and allow them to develop their talents to the full. Our future lies with the youth. The creation by the Tories of YTS will lead to the basic ideas of trade unionism and Socialism being re-sown and germinating in this generation. The Labour movement will organise among YTS. We shall fight for a guaranteed job for each and every trainee. To guarantee and maintain those reforms we need rationally to plan production in society, producing for need and not for profit. Campaigning for that goal remains our overriding priority.
