gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am pleased to have the opportunity in this debate to make my so-called maiden speech, particularly as my hon. Friend the Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is to reply. I think that he may say nice things about me, and we may discover why. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Gloucestershire, West (Mr. Marland) on his maiden speech. I hope that I can match him in brevity and in sticking to the point. Banffshire, or Banff as it is abbreviated—the constituency which I have the honour to represent—could be termed to be part of the so-called remoter areas of the EEC. It is often said to me here ""I know you are miles from Banff, but what is your name?"" Fortunately, one of my ancestors had the foresight to spell it with a ""Y"", so I cannot be metricated. Banffshire's interests are closely dependent on agreements with the EEC. The fishing industry, on which the coastal communities so heavily depend, looks to my right hon. and hon. Friends with a degree of complimentary confidence to secure an agreement which will protect their interests. My constituency boundary is rather ill-defined. Who can say how far it goes out into the North Sea? The boat building industry, too, relies heavily on EEC incentives. In this regard I hope that my hon. Friend will find a way to maintain employment in those yards by stimulating the building of new vessels in order that they may be equipped for the necessary maintenance work on our fishing fleet. From the fishing industry I turn to farming, and here I must declare an interest. I am a former convener of the organisation and publicity committee of the National Farmers' Union of Scotland and a tenant hill farmer, as are many of my constituents in the Glenlivet and Glen Rinnes area. If grouse moor image I have, it must be from the other side of the butt. Therefore, I share the interest of many of my constituents in the retention of the landlord-tenant system. Otherwise, how could we farm? I do not want to abolish the lairds or, for that matter, the lords, but I certainly want to keep them in order. I want a structure in agriculture which will enable young men of ability and enterprise to get a start on their own account, as I did; not to mention farm workers being able once again to graduate into being farmers in their own right. After the winter that we have just suffered, I hope that, somehow, my right hon. and hon. Friends will find some way of restoring a degree of confidence in the hill sector in order to maintain production for the benefit of all. Other farming interests include heavy dependence on pig production. At one time it was said that half the pigs in Scotland were in an area between Turriff and Cullen, which is in my constituency. I need hardly underline the urgency that is required to restore this sector to some kind of viability. In that regard I welcome what was said by my right hon. Friend this morning. The dairymen—I was pleased to hear what my right hon. Friend said about  the co-responsibility levy—the potato and barley growers, not to mention the famous feeders of beef cattle, require a degree of confidence from the Government in order to produce with the efficiency of which they have amply demonstrated they are capable. I mentioned earlier the names Glenlivet and Glen Rinnes. Those names are famous in another industry. There are 35 distilleries in Banffshire, and in one a new bottling plant is turning out nearly 500 cases of malt whisky an hour. Just think how much revenue is being produced from Banffshire! I am grateful to my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer for having the wit not to kill the goose that lays this liquid golden egg. This industry could be further stimulated by other sensible budgetary measures. I should be remiss indeed if I did not point out the remarkable attraction which Banffshire holds for tourism, from the marvellous golf courses—though I do not play golf—and other seaside attractions of the beautiful coastal boroughs to the sporting interests in the upper county. Who has not heard of the Spey or the Deveron as superb salmon rivers? Added to that is the beauty of the countryside, with a fair sprinking of forestry. We must strive to ensure that these competing land use interests are integrated in a sensible way and that a balance is kept. Other industries that must be encouraged and maintained are the two woollen mills in Keith, the bulb factory in Buckie—that factory is reputed to supply nearly all the bulbs for British Rail, but there is no truth in the rumour that there were a lot of Buckie boys on the Wembley special—the many small and enterprising businesses—the shortbread from Aberlour could use up a fair amount of the butter surplus—the lime quarries at Dufftown, the cooperages and the transport people, not to mention the numerous small industries. With that description of Banff constituency interests, I hope that I have demonstrated the interdependence that they all have one with another. I hope that we can build in a wider sense within the Community a structure that will integrate and serve the interests of all. We want a fair and balanced society where the interests of all are seen to be complementary. May I dare to say a word or two about surpluses? I hope that I shall not be controversial. Much public attention has been focused on the problem of surpluses. Politicians and public alike must recognise that any agricultural policy that aims at self-sufficiency must result in surpluses, as this is the only safeguard in the lean years caused by drought or other forces of nature. By and large, the surpluses represent reasonable reserves. Surplus is surely a sign of success rather than of failure. Our problem is, surely, how to utilise those surpluses in times of plenty rather than stopping their production. That can result only in periods of scarcity which, in turn, massively increase prices. A surplus is a consumer's best friend, although it can cause headaches for the producers. In conclusion, I must mention my predecessors. I purposely put that in the plural because all three Members who have been returned for Banff since the war deserve a mention. First was that well-loved and much-respected character Sir William Duthie, or Bill Duthie as he liked to be called. The House will be pleased to know that he is living in Aberdeenshire and still takes a lively interest in all the affairs of the House. Next came Bill Baker, who served faithfully and well without ostentation for a period of 10 years. Then we had my immediate predecessor, Hamish Watt. Like me, Hamish is a farmer, although he owns his land and I am but a humble tenant. One could say that one teuchter was replaced by another teuchter. In his time in the House Hamish became well known for his assiduous championing of his constituency's interests. I sincerely hope that I can carry on the good work of my predecessors relating to constituency work, and perhaps make a small contribution nationally as well.
