gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make this my maiden speech in such an important debate. It is a pleasure to follow the  hon. Member for Chester-le-Street (Mr. Radice). First, I want to record the gratitude of the people of Bournmouth, East for the long period of service of my predecessor, John Cordle. During the by-election campaign last November, I was particularly impressed by the many expressions of appreciation that I received on the doorsteps for the generous help and personal advice that he gave to so many of his constituents for which they will always be grateful. I am extremely privileged to have the opportunity to represent such a pleasant residential seaside constituency with so many attractive and natural amenities. To most people, Bournemouth is a first-class, all-the-year-round holiday centre. Many hon. Members present will themselves have experienced the hospitality of its fine hotels and excellent conference facilities. It is also an equally attractive place to retire to. Perhaps for that reason, Bournemouth is not without its special problems, because it has twice the national average of elderly people. More than 25 per cent. of its population are over the age of 65. Many of those people have fought to keep this country free. They have sacrificed to bring up and educate their families. They have saved and invested their savings throughout their working lives in order to retire and enjoy their remaining years in prosperity and security. That is a right they have earned and which they have deserved. However, in the past four years they have seen the value of their savings reduced by half, their dividends restrained and their investment income not only falling short of inflation but surcharged. As a result of the value of their homes, in an area where houses are not cheap, they are threatened with the prospect of a wealth tax. That is not what they anticipated when they retired, and it is not what they deserve. It may come as a surprise to some hon. Members to learn that, far from being the affluent place that it is supposed to be, Bournemouth, according to figures issued by the Department of the Environment last month, is top of the table for towns with the most claims for rate rebates. A total of 28 per cent. of   Bournemouth ratepayers claim rebates—twice the national average. This shows just how hard elderly people in particular have been hit in recent years. Unlike many other people, they have little opportunity to top up their incomes and maintain their living standards. On their behalf, I urge the Chancellor of the Exchequer to recognise the elderly as today's new poor and to treat them as a very special case in his forthcoming Budget by increasing significantly the age allowance so that they may keep and enjoy more of the income from their savings than they are allowed to keep at present. Another characteristic of my constituency, which has little manufacturing industry, is the large number of small firms. These are run by dedicated men and women and often whole families. They are intent on supplying a personal service. They must compete in order to survive. They have not heard of the eight-hour day or the five-day week and they do not clock on and clock off. The verb ""to strike"" is not part of their vocabulary. They cannot take a holiday together, because that would mean closing the shop and letting the customers down. It is they who, by endeavouring to reap a reward for themselves, enrich our community. It is they who offer a quality and variety of goods and services which no large impersonal chain or nationalised industry could hope to match. They do not seek special favours from the State and they are willing to pay taxes to benefit all—provided that they have the incentive to make a profit in the first place. Yet it is they who have been let down by successive Governments who have passed legislation which has made it difficult or impossible for them to survive. And, when so many of them give up the struggle and sell out to the large groups, we are told that the trend is inevitable. It is only us in the House who make such a trend inevitable, and I hope that the Lever Committee on small businesses will appreciate this fact. May I suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer one area where he can, I believe, produce a sigh of relief as opposed to howls of anguish from 500,000 small businesses? They would  no longer be legally obliged to be registered for VAT if the Chancellor were bold enough to raise the tax threshold to an annual turnover of £20,000 from the present £7,500. According to the reply to my first Written Question in January, the annual loss of revenue would be about £40 million. This loss, of £80 per business, would be made up in no time at all through the extra taxation from the increased income which would result on their being free of the burdensome commitment of administering VAT, apart from the bureaucratic savings resulting from such a move. Retired and elderly people and small businesses are common to every constituency and the key to their prosperity is the key to the country's prosperity—namely, to reduce taxes. There is only one sound way to cut taxes. It is not by blowing the revenues from the North Sea. It is not by maintaining a high public sector borrowing requirement. It can be achieved only by reducing Government expenditure—the subject of this debate. It may be an academic argument whether public expenditure is partially or wholly responsible for our present inflation, but none of us can deny that excessive taxation is a cause of inflationary pressure and that taxation and public expenditure have accounted for a growing proportion of our national income since records began. A century ago the proportion was 10 per cent., in 1900 it was 15 per cent. and by 1958 it had risen to 40 per cent. Today, although the Chancellor will argue various interpretaions of national income, the proportion is more than 60 per cent. The point to which I wish to draw attention is that every Government in the past 20 years have left office spending a greater proportion of our national income than when they arrived in office. Whereas in 1958 a married man on average earnings was paying less than one-tenth of his income in taxes, he now pays three times as much. In the light of results, I ask whether greater public expenditure has meant greater public efficiency. Spending on education has trebled since 1960, but there is no evidence that standards in our schools have improved by that much, if at all. Spending on housing has increased   by nearly 1,000 per cent. since 1960, but not only do we still have a high number of homeless, we have a record number of empty dwellings. Spending on health has increased by 500 per cent. since 1960, yet, despite long waiting lists, the number of hospital beds is being reduced and wards are closing. We are spending more on social services than ever before, but, as chairman of a county council social services committee, I know that we are nowhere near satisfying needs and that no social service authority in the country is meeting its statutory obligations. I question whether these authorities ever will, even though it is an area in which few would argue that our resources should not be concentrated. For all the £8,000 million losses, compensations, subsidies and write-offs in our nationalised industries, do we enjoy efficient and profitable State services? Ask the consumer; ask the taxpayer. I ask whether it is not a fallacy that for services to be good, it is the State which must spend the money. I urge that Parliament—not Government—should consider whether better results would not be achieved by using an altogether different approach—although I realise that to suggest substitutes for public expenditure would be venturing into controversial areas and trespassing on the kindness and indulgence that the House extends to a maiden speaker. However, I hope hon. Members will agree that I am stressing the obvious when I say that there must be, and will be, a point at which the amount of State spending of our private earnings becomes so high that there can be no turning back because it will have become so much a part of our way of life that no Parliament or Government will be able to reverse it. Then, we in this House shall no longer be servants of the people; we shall be servants of the State. This should be one of the main points at issue in this debate. The plain fact is that Government spending has risen, is rising and should be diminished.
