gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It falls to my lot to congratulate the hon. and gallant Member for North Fylde (Captain Stanley) on the very excellent maiden speech he has made. I am sure that with the associations with the House, of which he has spoken, he must have been well aware of the terrible ordeal of making a maiden speech. He has well survived it, and I am sure we all look forward to hearing him on many future occasions. I listened with great interest to the non-controversial speech of my right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General. He is not now here, and he asked me, should I be fortunate enough to be called, to say that he apologises for having unavoidably to leave. In dealing with leasehold reform, he mentioned specifically what a non-controversial attitude he was taking up, and it is from that point of view that I wish to address the House this afternoon. In the peculiar circumstances in which this House is now constituted, a very great opportunity arises   for a discussion of non-controversial Measures, and for putting on the Statute Book reforms, not of a party nature, but reforms which may command a considerable measure of support. I suggest that there are a number of reforms of that character which might well receive the consideration of the House in the next few months, and which would make a great difference to the mass of the population—for example, problems in the relationship of landlord and tenant, and similar matters. We all know that in regard to leasehold reform attempts have been made in the past, even under a Tory Government, to effect a number of improvements. Unfortunately, they were of a very meagre character. One example is the Landlord and Tenant Act, 1927. Under that Act, an attempt was made to deal with the question of dilapidations. There were many cases of landlords who had bought up short leases and then served schedules of dilapidations upon the tenants, the whole aim being to settle the matter by receiving a considerable sum in settlement—a sort of blackmail. The 1927 Act attempted in some measure to deal with that difficulty. It tried to deal with the question of dilapidations and to say that the measure of damage should be the damage to the reversion. Since 1927 there has been a number of judicial decisions, and these decisions show that the danger to the tenant still remains, that in many cases tenants with short leases, tenants faced with the obligation of having to carry out repairs at periods or at the end of their leases, will be called upon to pay very heavy sums. I suggest that this is a Measure which calls for reform. An attempt was also made in that Act to deal with the glaring case of a tenant in occupation of business premises who had established goodwill and who might be turned out into the streets by the landlord without compensation of any kind. That Act laid down a limited measure of compensation for goodwill and certain circumstances under which a lease might be granted. Unfortunately, as anyone with experience of these cases knows, the cases in which a tenant can obtain compensation are very limited in character, and the cases where a lease can be obtained are still more limited. The result is that we now have many people with tenancies of busi-  ness premises who have established thriving businesses and are faced with ruin because at the end of the period of their lease their landlord may turn them out. These are two instances of evils that cry out for legislation. The Committee dealing with leasehold reform issued an interim report in June, 1949. We know, of course, that the previous Government had so much business on its hands that the recommendations of that interim report could not be implemented. I suggest that now is the time when these matters can be gone into thoroughly, and that report could be debated, and by agreement a number of these measures of reform could be brought into operation by an Act of Parliament. My hon. Friend the Member for Leicester, North-West (Mr. Janner), appeared to think that this was not the time for a consolidating Act. I suggest that this is the time to have a consolidating Act in the realm of the law dealing with the relationship of landlord and tenant. Since 1915, we have had a series of Rent Restriction Acts, and the result has been a perfect maze of legislation. Many judges have commented on the perplexities of these Acts, which we know have created many anomalies and have been very difficult to apply. Two further Acts were passed in the last Parliament, dealing with furnished premises, premiums and matters of that kind. In their turn, they have added to this mass of legislation. Surely this is a good opportunity to cut across party lines and endeavour to put upon the Statute Book a consolidating Measure to deal with the provisions of the Rent Restriction Acts, to endeavour to simplify them and to bring them up to date. A further point I desire to raise is this. In my constituency there have been a number of complaints in regard to the way in which housing premises are dealt with. In certain cases where houses have been tenanted they are used by persons as workshops or factories. Not only are the premises unsuitable as workshops or factories, but, of course, they take away from the pool of housing that is available for the people. I suggest that this also is the time when some attention might be given to that problem. In connection with rent restriction, I would also mention another point which has been referred to before. Houses built by councils, whether they be borough councils or county councils, are not within the provisions of the Rent Restriction Acts, and that means that local authorities can raise the rents of the tenants, as has been done in a number of instances. In many cases those increases are fully justified and proper attention is given to the problem, but undoubtedly there are cases where the tenants have been victimised. It is essential that something should be done to protect tenants in those cases so that before the rent is raised the matter shall be thoroughly investigated. One way of dealing with it is to bring houses of that kind within the Rent Restriction Acts. In the consolidating legislation I suggest that question might be borne in mind. There have been many Acts of Parliament consolidating the law. There was a great Act, the Sale of Goods Act, 1893, which codified the then existing law. My suggestion to the House is that, with the House constituted as at present, attention should be given to this matter of the law of landlord and tenant, and the problems I have mentioned should be investigated and an attempt made to codify the existing law and bring it up to date. If that is done, I am sure this House will be carrying out a very valuable piece of work.
