gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
No new Member, knowing the history of these islands, may rise to address this House for the first time without a feeling of becoming humility. Since coming here I have listened with the closest attention to many sparkling contribution from both sides, many of them edifying and palatable, but some not so satisfying. I have heard, for instance, a Member on the other side of the House discover that we were abolishing the Scottish Rural Housing Act. We should have appreciated the discovery of the need for rural housing 20 years ago, but it is true to say that we used that Act in Scotland. One of our counties tackled 527 houses and spent £58,000in the process. It was a pitiable thing, but it was all that this House gave us. I have an assurance from the Secretary of State for Scotland that he will put something better in its place. I have heard the hon. Member for South Edinburgh (Sir W. Darling)telling us that this Bill is not adequate. I heard him, one night recently, telling us that he was once a member of the I.L.P. I often wondered what caused the decline of the I.L.P. which was once the spear-point of the working-class movement in this country. I, for one, will welcome the day when the I.L.P. leave the tents of Ishmael, which they occupy to-day, and once more join Israel, so that together we may fight the battle of the international working-class. I heard the Lord Privy Seal pass the joke of being generous to Scotland, and although I differed from him then, I pardoned him when he gave us that brilliant speech on industrial history. He mentioned Keir Hardie, the man who blazed the trail for us in Scotland, and told me that it was a hard and stony way to Westminster. He mentioned Bob Smillie, of the mines, a giant among the pygmies in Lanark, and I think he might have also added the name of one other, who graced this House for 25 years, and who held the Hamilton Division of Lanark against Communist and capitalist for a quarter of a century: I  refer to the late Mr. Duncan MacGregor Graham, a symbolic name for Scotland—as implacable as his own Scottish hills and incorruptible. May his bones rest easy in Bent churchyard. Lucky is the Hamilton Division of Lanark to have a Fraser in his place. I heard an hon. Member opposite, one evening last week, charge the followers of the Government with taciturnity. I wish to correct that impression. We of the Scottish contingent will not deny that taciturnity is a national trait, engendered through years of ceaseless, soul-breaking struggle, in our endeavour to wrest a livelihood from a sterile land. But although we may be taciturn, we are not an unsociable people. On the other hand, we do not believe in bobbing up and down, taking up valuable Parliamentary time, when the less said the more will be done. Remember that the people of our country are not expecting that of us; they are expecting us to do things. The hon. Member for South Edinburgh has told us that this Bill is inadequate. I suggest to him that it will at least give us the water to mix the mortar to build the temple of the new Jerusalem. Those who have gone before us have laid the foundation for the temple of the new Jerusalem, and it is our job to build it; and this Bill will give us the water to do it. I know perfectly well it is not adequate for Scotland; but when did Scotland ever get adequate treatment from Westminster? I know perfectly well that we can utilise far more money than is placed at our disposal, but this will guarantee to our-people a supply of pure water; and not only in the Highlands and Islands, but in the Lowlands of Scotland there is a dearth of pure water supplies. It is no use hon. Members trying to tell me that they have not had ample time to discuss this Bill. As senior bailie and convenor of water and town planning of Bonnyrigg and Lasswade, I have discussed this Bill with my Class, and we have had the plans before us of the Midlothian County Council, our major planning authority, who have shown us what they intend to do under the Bill. Let me say, in passing, that they can quite easily use £6,000,000, all that the Secretary of State is going to give us in Scotland. It is no use people saying that they have had no time. If they had been taking an interest in their work—and the Midlothian County Council has never been noted for being an advanced   local authority—they would have been in a position to instruct their representatives how to vote, when the major local authorities met. I, for one, welcome this Bill, and I hope and trust that when it does become law, hon. Members opposite will assist us in seeing to it that we have a water supply such as Glasgow has, and such as Edinburgh has had for many years; because much as we may begrudge Edinburgh its position, we must pay deference to the foresight and thought and planning ability of the men who were the city fathers of Edinburgh in years gone by. They outlined the watershed from Edinburgh right toTweedsmuir, and it will only be a case of clothing that skeleton. We in South Eastern Scotland have an easy problem; only the money is lacking.
