gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye and make my maiden speech. I represent Truro. It was my birthplace, and is my home.   I have never really regarded myself as English, and that seems to be a substantial advantage, at least in this part of the House. I am the first Liberal Member of Parliament since 1929 to represent my constituency. I hope that if we should again lose the seat the next break will not be so long. I must thank the previous Member for Truro for his efforts on behalf of my constituency. Without doubt he will be best remembered for spending a lot of time proving at least to his satisfaction that there were few Cornish people left in my area. It has long been my opinion that my constituency has been badly named. It is called the Truro constituency, but it should be known as Mid-Cornwall. It covers two centres of population, namely, Truro and St. Austell, the larger of which is St. Austell. With its enormous clay interests St. Austell is a major contributor to the British economy. It has struck me during my interest in politics that my constituency suffers from a bad image or, rather, an incorrect image. It has the image of beautiful sandy beaches, shining sun and bikini-clad visitors, who appear to spend money rather as if we were about to stop printing the stuff. The reality of the area is somewhat different. It has the lowest average wage in Britain, bar one area in Scotland. In my constituency there are 49 primary schools which were constructed before 1903. There are three such schools with buckets reasonably placed to catch the rain on days when the weather is not in their favour. One primary school is half closed because of structural problems. In Truro, which is a city that takes great pride in itself, it is impossible for a young man to take any O level in any subject at any State school. Agriculture is important to my constituency. Yesterday we went through the problems of agriculture in some considerable detail. The fourth part of my constituency's economy relies on tourism. Last year there were about 3 million visitors to our county. It is my opinion that we have very nearly reached the point where further increases in tourism will cause more problems than they will solve. The traffic conditions in the summer months strangle much of the industry that keeps the county going for the rest of the year. In the summer months there is  tremendous pressure on hospital services —not to mention such matters as sewerage problems. I understand that in Cornwall it is impossible at any hospital to have a non-essential operation in the months of July and August. My constituency is believed to be rural, but I assure the House that parts of it are as urban as any other constituency. I am sure that many hon. Members have been subjected to the same pressure on housing matters as that which I have faced in my short time here. What amazes me is that we can best sum up the last 20 years of housing as having seen more failures than successes. It is time that something was done. I hope that the terms of the Gracious Speech mean that the Government will do something to improve the situation. Another problem in my area is that of summer lets. It is time something was done to make it more difficult to transfer to the business of summer lets houses that are normally let for 12 months of the year to local residents. Of course, I welcome some parts of the Gracious Speech. I hope that one day the Government will be converted to the idea of a national minimum wage. I believe that there is nothing that could do more to help areas such as mine than such a minimum. Besides being a mechanical engineer I did, at least until the election, hold the post of a sub-postmaster. That has given me an insight into many people's problems. I welcome the family allowance increases that are referred to in the Gracious Speech. Contrary to the belief of many Conservative hon. Members, a lot of the money that is spent on such allowances is not wasted. The fact that it will be extended to the first child could do more than anything except the introduction of a national minimum wage to attack poverty in low-wage areas. It is time there was a radical reform of the whole social security system. It is far too complicated. It occurs to me that people sometimes need accountants to fill in their forms. The system needs to be incorporated into the tax system. I was delighted to hear the right hon. Lady say that in her opinion there are far too many means tests. It seems that there is little point in having a magnificent system of protection if the people do not feel able to use it.
