gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to make my maiden speech, Sir, and therefore, ask the House for its customary courtesy and forbearance. My justification for intervening in a debate which excites so much public interest, and which is politically so delicate, is threefold. First, I discovered as the General Election proceeded that my constituents were more interested in this subject of industrial relations, and particularly in that aspect of it which touches upon unofficial strikes, than in all other subjects which came before the electorate during the course of the election. That, to me, is not entirely surprising since my constituency of Eastleigh is an industrial centre. I realise that Hampshire is not normally associated in the minds of right hon. and hon. Members with industry, but in Eastleigh we have the major locomotive and carriage works of the Southern Region of British Railways, we have a large cable works, we have a considerable aircraft industry, we have a large printing works, and a number of small, light industries. It is, therefore, not surprising that those people should be interested in this subject. The lives of many of my constituents are dominated by the factory gate, and what goes on inside that gate largely determines whether they shall lead happy and purposeful lives or whether their lives will be just a listless struggle for existence. My second justification for intervening in this debate is that many of my constituents took part in the recent rail strike. I believe that we are also quite well represented in the shipping strike. You see, Sir, we are a vigorous constituency and like to take part in these national movements, even if their form is occasionally a little unorthodox. My footplate men have recently asked me to demand the immediate dismissal of all the British Transport Commission, but as, by custom, a maiden speech is non-  controversial, I am not in a position to support their claims, at least not today. My third justification for intervening is that I myself have been working in industry, not only in this country, but also abroad. For the last 18 months I have travelled 80,000 miles round the factories and mines of the world. I visited North America on a number of occasions, India, Pakistan, Singapore, New Zealand, Australia, Germany, and many of the European countries. I was in Australia last autumn during the dock strike. I saw orders being lost to this country because British exporters could not honour their delivery dates by delivering the goods—a small, practical lesson to me in what can he the cost of strikes in the docks. From my travels and my experiences in industry it is clear to me that the answer to our current industrial disputes does not, and cannot, lie in further legislation at the present time. There are, I know, times when legislation is appropriate—as in the Factories Acts, the Trade Disputes Acts and the like. Basically, however, we cannot legislate good relations. The subject of industrial relations is all about people, and we cannot make people friends simply by passing laws telling them that they ought to be friends. In this context, I am reminded of what Dr. Johnson once wrote: How small of all that human hearts endure, That part which laws or kings can cause or cure! Nor can the depth of the problem be measured simply by the number of strikes, be they official or unofficial. The fact that men are not on strike does not mean that relations are good; just as the absence of positive hatred, in my opinion, is not an adequate basis for marriage. I do not wish to paint a false picture of industrial relations. In a negative sense they are good, but in a positive sense I believe that much is lacking. Our sins are the sins of omission rather than the sins of commission. Too often are we satisfied with an absence of strife and we call it harmony. There are factories which I have been round where the eyes of the people speak silent mutiny to the management, but more common is a listless apathy towards work and the place of work, where people live only for the   end of the day, where work is a drudgery and where, at best, it is patiently borne as a necessary evil—for without work we do not eat. Unless people can derive some pleasure and some sense of purpose from their work, they cannot be happy; and if they are not happy, industrial relations cannot be good. That is what I mean when I say that we need something positive. We must create the conditions whereby people can positively enjoy their work. One of my first bosses in industry used the slogan, ""Try to make work fun."" I have always tried to live by that, and I believe that if one does one gets a lot more out of life. I believe that if we can make work fun for people in our factories, we shall go a long way towards removing the causes of industrial dispute. The House may rightly ask, how do we make people happy? It is the 64 dollar question. What is the answer? I know that this is the heart of the problem, but there is not a simple remedy. Anyone who expects to find one will be sorely disappointed. Joint consultation, job evaluation, training within industry, job selection and profit sharing are all useful devices in their proper place, but none of these is in itself a universal remedy. We must guard against industrial quacks who peddle high-sounding specifics for the ills of industry. Like medical quacks, they do great harm, particularly among those who know very little about industry. A good manager knows that an employee is something more than a pair of hands or a substitute for a machine, but I sometimes wonder whether the less thoughtful ones do. However technical a problem may be, management must never forget that each employee is, in his own way, individual, unique and eternal. He therefore deserves individual treatment. Unfortunately, the cry for equality by various pressure groups is sometimes so strong that we often do grave injustice by the individual under the cry for equality—I ought not to be excessively controversial—as in the case of inadequate differentials or paying two men the same wage when one does twice as much work. Management must resist the pressure of the big battalions, from whatever quarter it comes. The first responsibility for industrial relations clearly lies with management. They establish the conditions of work. They have the day-to-day responsibility for the men under their command and they should create the proper atmosphere in which work appears worth while. By definition, it is management's job to lead and to inspire. Unfortunately, some of our managers are somewhat timorous and fearful of giving too strong a lead in case they upset head office or the union. It is my belief that the British working man prefers sturdy leadership and, like the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan), he does not like to be managed by ""desiccated calculating machines."" That is why I believe that one of the most effective ways of improving industrial relations is to improve the standard of management. By management, I mean primarily industrial management, but I would point out that both the trade unions and the Government have their own management problems. I hope that my right hon. Friends who are responsible for nationalised industries will encourage their boards to press ahead with management training and to pay their managements better, to pay them the rate for the job, and to recruit more extensively from the universities and the senior technical colleges. If people are to be happy, they must have a sense of purpose. I venture to suggest that industry has a very clear purpose. First, let me say what that purpose is not. Primarily, that purpose is not either to make profits or to provide employment. They are secondary purposes. The prime purpose of industry is to provide the goods and services which the community needs. In fulfilling that purpose there are three partners to the enterprise: the customers who provide the market and without whom the enterprise could not exist; all employees, from the chairman to the newest joined apprentice—they provide the brawn and the brain—and, finally, the stockholders, who are able to multiply, and to multiply many times, the effectiveness of the employees by providing fixed and working capital. Those are the three partners to the industrial bargain and they each have a claim upon the enterprise. Their rights may be summed up quite simply—a fair wage, a just price and a reasonable return. Where these partners can be more closely linked, as in a profit-sharing scheme, then a greater sense of purpose is created. I am a firm believer in the principle of profit sharing, but having, possibly, been one of the few hon. Members of this House who has played some part in actually devising a profit-sharing scheme and installing it into one of our larger companies, I must warn the House against depending on it as a patent medicine. Profit sharing will work only where relations are already good, where there is a tradition of good relations between unions and management and, of course, where there is some profit to share. Wages, hours of work, working conditions, amenities, profit sharing—they all play their part in industrial relations, but in the last analysis it gets down to the character, the personality and the example of the people who lead the enterprise. The heart of good leadership lies as it always has, in two very simple words, ""Follow me.""
