gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Dr. Broughton, for my   good fortune in catching your eye, and I ask the indulgence of the Committee as this is the first time I have spoken in this place. Many hon. Members will remember with affection my predecessor, Sir Richard Nugent, a wise, just and fair man. I believe I shall have the support of hon. Members on both sides of the Committee in saying that we wish him well in his future work outside this House. I do not propose to take the Committee on a conducted tour of my constituency. But I would just say this. In a sense, the problems we face in my constituency are a microcosm of the problems which the country as a whole faces. Half choked by traffic, hard pressed by demands for more housing, more schools and considerable pressure of population on all sides, preparing for a new university, we certainly do not lack any new ideas or bold approaches to meet these challenges. But what we in Guildford do lack, as do many communities elsewhere, are the resources to implement the ideas and a prospect of steady growth in those resources in the future. No, it needs no theoretician to tell us in Guildford that behind the problem of resources lies the central problem of the need for a very rapid rise in productivity. I do not mean the kind of very modest rise which we have had in the last year nor the equally modest rise envisaged in the former five-year National Plan—now the one-year rolling plan. Hon. Members must know in their hearts that, however successful a prices and incomes policy is, in future earnings will rise at substantially rapid rates. That is right because we want to get away from the old low-wage economy. But the only way to absorb substantial percentage increases in wages is by very substantial increases in productivity. That is the way in which other industrial countres have done it and the only way in which we in this country can do it. Against this perhaps rather commonsense and obvious background, I must confess that as a newcomer here I have found myself a little bewildered by the Budget. One would have thought that, as the desperate need for a really rapid increase in productivity is the central aim, the whole long-term strategy of the  Budget would have been directed to this end and would have been aimed at providing an impetus to the input of intellect, imagination and vigour which are the raw materials of high productivity in an economy like ours. It is very difficult as a newcomer to see from the Budget that this has been the end. In a sense, if the Selective Employment Tax has been the prima donna of the Budget, productivity has been its Cinderella. It is true that the Selective Employment Tax is a very ingenious, if a little heartless, device for withdrawing substantial purchasing power from the economy and widening the tax base. As a device for making 1967 virtually a year of stop—an objective which I view with increasing unease—I have no doubt that it will be devastatingly effective. But will it really have the desired effect on productive capacity? Will it really increase the inducements to manufacturers to put in more capital intensive equipment? I doubt very much whether it will. This afternoon I was heartened when the Chancellor intervened and indicated that he, too, did not see this as the main case for his Selective Employment Tax. What the Chancellor will have to realise, and what other hon. Members will have to accept, is that if we wish to get any mileage in terms of higher productivity out of this kind of fiscal vehicle it will have to become, not a Selective Employment Tax, but a general employment tax, bound with drawbacks in some cases. Even then, we must be careful about imagining that this kind of fiscal manoeuvring can have a decisive influence on business investment decisions. I am not sure that it can. I know that in theory it is possible to argue that moves of this kind will increase productive investment and bring about labour saving. In fact I am convinced that at this stage the main stimulus to productivity must be the stimulus of giving incentives to those whose minds are going to produce the new ideas, those with the imagination, new work methods and inclination to work out new work processes, who are in the firms and who are ready to do the job. If we ignore them and their readiness to undertake this work, we ignore the heart problem of productivity. Against this background I should like to state two initiatives which I believe it would have been useful for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to have included in the Budget and which would have firmly shown that was allying himself to the central problem of the drive for higher productivity. First and foremost, if the Chancellor had made the Selective Employment Tax a general employment tax, even at a lower rate than that which he proposes, then for the first time he would have been in a position about which Chancellor's dream. He would have been in a position to have made a substantial cut in Income Tax right across the range and to have produced powerful new earning incentives at every level of the economy. However much lecturing there may be, however many speeches there may be, however many warnings there may be, and however much planning may get done, we are now at the stage in our economic development where the spark will only come from incentives and substantial cuts of this kind. That is the first point. That would have been the chance to have given inspiration—because that is what is missing in the whole of this economic strategy—to those who are waiting for it and who are ready to get on to the job of moving us into a higher productivity situation. The second point is that there was an opportunity, and still is, for the Chancellor to have taken a lead in the drive for productivity in the Administration itself. It strikes me as a little bizarre as a newcomer here that the Chancellor should tell the Committee very little about the goals he is setting for savings and economies in Departments within the Administration. Presumably these goals have been set and presumably it will be possible to judge whether they are to be achieved within the different Government Departments. However, it would have been interesting if these had been laid before the Committee so that we too could have judged progress in economy, in cost cutting, and in saving waste, in Government Departments; because this, too, is a central part of the drive for productivity. If these two proposals alone had been emphasised in the Budget, it would have been possible to have said that this was a Budge: based on a determination and a  real enthusiasm to accelerate productivity very sharply and not merely by modest amounts, rather than a Budget based on rather hair-raisingly vague hopes and fears. Until this country has an Administration which is really ready to grasp the central point of the need for incentives, we shall limp along with the very modest productivity targets of the kind outlined in the one-year rolling plan from the Department of Economic Affairs. But when the country has an Administration which grasps this central point, then I believe that the opportunities for this country will be boundless and that the way will at least be open for the British economic miracle which the whole Committee wants to see and of which we are truly capable.
