gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this, my maiden speech, in accordance with what I understand to be the conventions, I should like first to pay tribute to my predecessor, Lord Selwyn-Lloyd. In doing so, I am aware that many words have recently been spoken about his career as a distinguished Member of this House, as a statesman of considerable ability, and as Speaker. My tribute is to my predecessor as a constituency Member. For 31 years he served our community in Wirral, and he had and still has a great reputation for a lifetime of service. His work in Wirral is well known, in particular in connection with cancer research, the provision of   homes for the elderly, the Abbeyfield Society, Shelter, his efforts to preserve Caldy Manor Hospital, and his work in many charitable organisations both inside and outside the constituency. We in Wirral praise and respect Lord Selwyn-Lloyd for his service not only to the country but to our community. One great example which Lord Selwyn-Lloyd has set and which I shall find it very difficult to follow is that in the constituency he has a reputation of replying to all letters by return of post. When he was Speaker he received 7,000 letters in his first two years and still maintained his reputation. The name ""Wirral"", as many eminent historians in the area have told me from their researches, dates back to the year 895, when it was first mentioned as Wirheal in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. It forms part of the peninsula between the River Dee and the River Mersey. On the Dee side are the villages of Hoylake, West Kirkby, Caldy and Heswall. On the same side, taking in part of Cheshire, are the villages of Parkgate, Neston, Burton and Willaston. The constituency also moves close to the Mersey on the other side, taking in a large part of Birkenhead, Upton and Prenton. It is a large constituency, with more than 94,000 electors. On behalf of my constituents, I can say that we are concerned not only about our own conditions but very much about conditions in the whole of Merseyside. As one who was brought up in Liverpool and whose family is part of the Liverpool shipping heritage, I am very sad about the decline of industry in Merseyside. The present high level of unemployment there is a tragic waste of human resources. In Wirral we suffer an unemployment rate of 10·3 per cent. In some parts of my constituency it is as high as 25 per cent., and in some industries it is even higher. I was told this morning by the National Federation of Building Trades Employers that in the construction industry within a 10-mile radius of Birkenhead and Liverpool there is 33·6 per cent. unemployment among operatives. It is very worrying to contemplate the amount of social and economic damage done by such widespread unemployment. To be without the opportunity of work  is an affront to human dignity. Therefore, I welcome the Chancellor's extension of the job creation programme, which I support, although many representations from constituents lead me to suspect that not all the money is being spent on the provision of jobs. Some may be being wasted in meeting surplus administrative costs. As long as the money is spent to create jobs I praise the scheme. It is youth unemployment that must have the concern of us all. For school leavers to move from the classroom to the dole is for them to understand, in accordance with the education that they have been given, that they have failed completely and utterly. We must do more to alleviate youth unemployment, but job creation can be only a temporary palliative. It is the far more serious long-term youth unemployment that we must tackle urgently. We must increase the facilities for training. We need a new skillcentre in Wirral. At the moment we do not have sufficient facilities. Training must be increased, but it must be relevant. In many ways the training that we are giving our youngsters does not prepare them sufficiently for the jobs that we all earnestly hope will be available for them in the years to come. It is, however, for those who are socially and physically disabled that the present situation has the most serious consequences. Therefore, I welcome the Chancellor's decision to extend further the Community Industry Scheme. I supported the Scheme during the three years that I was Chairman of the British Youth Council. I believe that it is invaluable in the help that it gives to socially disadvantaged young people. Even more serious is the prospect that is faced in Merseyside of substantial further increases in unemployment. Many of the industries on which we depend are facing difficulties. I believe that there is a vital need to preserve the Shotton Steel Works. If we were to lose that industry we should lose the benefit of its excellent industrial relations record. If the works are to be closed there will be extremely depressing consequences, including a desperate situation for the Birkenhead docks. Cammell Laird also needs more Government support. Surely one of the strong   arguments for the Government to site the headquarters of the British Shipbuilders on Merseyside, if the present legislation succeeds, is the impressive record and tradition of our area in the industry. On Merseyside we need special and urgent help unless we are to slide further into increasing unemployment and depression. I respect the traditions of the House, but I hope that on another occasion I shall have an opportunity to enter into more controversial matters. I am privileged to have become a Member of the House of Commons. Some have described how they believe that the power of Parliament has diminished, but I do not share that view. The Government may seek to limit the power of the Executive, but it is in this place that we still have the opportunity to defend individual freedom. The individual needs protection of his rights more than ever before. I shall seek to play my part in safeguarding basic human freedoms, one of the most important of which I regard as the right to employment.
