gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech this evening. There is an old adage that the opposite of talking is not listening, but waiting. I hope that the hon. Member for Ochil (Mr. O'Neill) will excuse me, on this occasion, for not having listened to his speech as carefully as I might otherwise have done. This Chamber has a great reputation for honesty, but I hope that no one will object when I go home to my constituents and say that I addressed a packed and noisy Chamber this evening. I have the great privilege to represent North Norfolk. I am grateful for the fact that the ex-chairman of the North Norfolk Conservative Association, my hon. Friend the Member for Cotswold (Mr. CliftonBrown), is here tonight at my side. For the past 27 years, my constituency has been represented by Sir Ralph Howell, who was well known for the care that he lavished on his constituents. Ministers knew that he was the sort of man who, when he wrote letters to them, would never give up. He was the scourge of Ministers, local government officials and bureaucrats at all levels. Sir Ralph had two great passions. First, he was a passionate believer in the European Union. When he was a young man, the first time that he saw continental Europe   was when he looked down on Germany through the bomb sight of a Wellington bomber. That experience made him believe that a strong European Union was vital for peace in Europe. Sir Ralph's second abiding passion was his belief and faith in workfare. He would have been pleased to have heard some of the welfare-to-work proposals in the Budget statement. I was very much struck when the hon. Member for Ochil spoke about long-term unemployment. It was the waste and misery surrounding that which drove Sir Ralph towards workfare. I share his views about the awful waste of long-term unemployment, having seen it in much of England, Scotland and Wales when I worked for British Steel. I do not believe that welfare to work, based on Government subsidy, is the right way to cure the problem, but I share the deep concern of the hon. Member for Ochil about the tragedy of unemployment for so many people. Sir Ralph was a man of great conviction and principle and I am proud to follow in his footsteps. When making one's maiden speech, it is tradition to refer to one's constituency. I am afraid that I shall disappoint the House and continue with that tradition, so I ask hon. Members to bear with me for a while. Agriculture remains one of the most important industries in North Norfolk. The Cokes and the Townshends, whose families were the foundation of the agricultural revolution in the 18th century, still hold land and farm in North Norfolk. A strong, profitable and competitive agriculture industry is vital to the interests of North Norfolk. My county is still very rural. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Witney (Mr. Woodward) about field sports. They are a vital freedom, a tradition and a way of life in North Norfolk and our countryside would be much the poorer without them. North Norfolk still has a local shellfish industry. The Cromer crab has a reputation that extends way beyond Norfolk. Our history of shellfish fishing shows that the best regulators are the generations of fishing families who have caught shellfish off the coast, not distant bureaucrats in Whitehall or Brussels. Probably the most difficult issue in North Norfolk—and, indeed, in most rural areas—is the balance between keeping Norfolk special and the requirements of development. Because of the development of out-of-town supermarkets, the hearts of towns such as Fakenham and Cromer have disappeared. There has been a demise in village shops and local amenities. There is constant conflict between the need for a strong tourist industry and the pressure on the Norfolk broads and the coast. I believe strongly in the need to provide decent, affordable housing and public transport for local people, but I realise the real pressures of housing on the countryside. Small businesses are the mainstay of employment in North Norfolk. I was disappointed to hear no reference in the Budget statement to improving the uniform business rate as it applies to small businesses. There is no doubt that it is skewed too much against small, usually retail, businesses. Some of it should be switched back to larger businesses. North Norfolk has an elderly population. Many people have worked hard all their lives and, although they do not have great savings, they have enough to prevent them from getting any help from the state. Those people are  especially vulnerable and they will not welcome the news today that their pensions will be adversely affected by the abolition of the tax credit on dividends paid to pension funds. Neither will many of them be pleased to hear that they will no longer get tax relief on the premiums paid for private health insurance. We have a very special hospital at Kelling. It is a community hospital, not a big hospital, and many of its patients are old people. I serve notice on the Secretary of State for Health that Kelling is special and that everyone in North Norfolk will fight to keep it alive. I have spent the past 20 years working in manufacturing, mainly for British Steel. I have seen a fantastic impact on competitiveness and efficiency over the past 20 years. It has come about through deregulation, tax reduction, vastly improved industrial relations, privatisation and much less government. My father, Jim Prior, made his maiden speech in this House in 1959, when the Japanese were about to open their first transistor radio factory in Ireland. He said then that, as a farmer, he would never again buy any Irish bullocks if the Japanese were allowed to open a factory in Ireland. Things have changed a great deal since 1959. We now live in a global economy with unrestricted capital movements and widely dispersed technology and skills. The general agreement on tariffs and trade has reduced many of our trade barriers. My right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition earlier quoted from a report by the World Economic Forum. He must have had pre-knowledge of my speech. The report said: what we see in the United Kingdom is an economy reborn and the sweeping privatisation, deregulation and other structural reforms have made us well poised to compete in a global economy. That success has been recognised by companies around the world. There has been more foreign direct investment in Britain since 1979 than Germany received in Marshall aid after the war, in real terms. It is against that background that we must look at today's Budget. The Budget contains three illusions. The first is that the windfall tax and the abolition of the advance corporation tax credit have no victims. Both have victims. The windfall tax will erode the investment potential of those on whom it is levied. The abolition of the ACT credit will hit pensioners. The second illusion is that Government can create jobs. In fact, only competitive and strong companies and businesses can create jobs. Jobs built on short-term subsidies will have no security. The third and last illusion is that the Government believe in the long term. They cannot and will not stop meddling in the short term. Surely one of the lessons of the past 20 years is that it is best for Governments to keep out of business as much as possible. The Budget, combined with the Government's views on the minimum wage and the social chapter, marks a watershed. I pray that it will not bring to an end all the improvements that we have achieved in the past 20 years.
