gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am doubly grateful for the opportunity to initiate this debate as it enables me to make my maiden speech on the last possible opportunity before the long recess and gives me the chance of raising an issue that is of great importance and concern to my constituency. First, I pay tribute to my predecessor as Member of Parliament for St. Ives, Sir John Nott. He served the constituency and the country with great distinction for 16 years and he and Lady Nott are held in the highest regard in the constituency. I am delighted, as everybody is, that they are continuing to live in St. Ives. I know that it is customary for new Members making their maiden speech to overegg the pudding in describing the beauties and characteristics of their constituencies. However, representing St. Ives as I now do, there is no need for me to do that. After all, St. Ives is known and loved by many holidaymakers. Looking around the Chamber, I suspect that some of our colleagues have already headed for that constituency or other parts of Cornwall. The constituency is very much dependent on the tourist trade. It is well known for the Isles of Scilly, for landmarks such as Land's End, for small businesses, farms and fishing ports. No doubt, right now, it presents an idyllic picture to those on holiday there. However, we have only to think back to the Penlee disaster to realise how that picture can change with dramatic effect. On that night, a hurricane force gale swept along the Cornish coast, with terrible results. The exposed nature of the coastline and the intensity of shipping, both local and international, around it make my constituency worthy of special consideration for emergency services. My plea to my hon. Friend today is that he should give us special consideration in the provision of emergency services both in regard to coastguards and the Land's End coastal radio stations. I shall deal first with the coastguards. Just before the Penlee disaster, a major reorganisation of the coastguard services in the south-west came into effect. As a result, the new rescue co-ordination centre at Falmouth came into full operation, the previous coastguard substation at Land's End lost its earlier role, and control was transferred to Falmouth. Let me make it clear that I am in no way knocking the Falmouth co-ordination centre or the dedicated staff who man it. My object today is to try to focus attention on the continuing role of the three coastguard stations that remain in my constituency — St. Ives, Gwennap Head, or Land's End as it is more popularly known, and the Lizard. Following that reorganisation, these are now manned by auxiliary coastguards, who are volunteers who deserve our thanks and support. In the light of the Penlee inquiry I am asking for a sensible, calm review now that the inquiry is over of the exact relationship between the Falmouth maritime rescue co-ordination centre and the three coastguard stations manned basically be auxiliaries in my constituency. Those coastguard stations have a vital role to play, because of the exposed geographical position. I hope that there will be a  review to ensure that they get the resources—which are important — and the authority — which is equally important—to enable them to continue to fulfil that role. As the Minister knows, there has been considerable concern about the matter in our part of the world. If the Minister agrees to a review, I urge him to involve the informed local interests. Those will, of course, include the Royal National Life-boat Institution. Incidentally, to underline the dangers of that coast, there are no fewer than four lifeboat stations in my constituency. Of course, other informed local interests would need to be involved. The other linked subject that I want to mention is the future of the Land's End coastal radio station. For many years that station has played a crucial role in providing an emergency and safety service, not only for local boats, but for the international traffic that moves up and down the western approaches. It is an area of heavy shipping, both local and international. Under the reorganisation proposals of British Telecom International, coastal radio stations in this country were to be put on remote control, and the system was to be centralised on two centres for the whole country. That has caused alarm, certainly in my part of the world. Land's End radio station is probably the best known of all the coastal radio stations. It is highly respected by the lifeboatmen, local fishermen and the international shipping lines which pass up and down the channel. My plea, of which I am completely convinced, is that the Land's End coastal radio station must continue on a manned basis to provide the distress radio watch, which is funded by my hon. Friend's Department. I have visited the station, I have met the men who man it, heard their reasonable views, and admired the responsible way in which they put forward their case. I have also consulted the lifeboat coxswains in the area, the fishermen and the local council. As a result, I am convinced that the station must continue on a manned basis. I ask my hon. Friend to look into this matter. I hope that he can find the money to enable the distress watch to continue at Land's End on a 24-hour basis, despite what might happen to the commercial side of the station. It is the emergency side of the station that concerns me primarily. Those are my pleas today. I appreciate that they involve complex matters, and that time does not allow me or the House to go into them in greater detail at this stage. However, I hope that my hon. Friend will agree to meet me and perhaps other interested bodies to explore these matters further. If he could do that, I should be extremely grateful. I am extremely grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, and to the other hon. Members who are here today. I thank you and them for your indulgence in this my maiden speech, and I am grateful to have had this opportunity to raise these important issues.
