gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the House to listen to me with the special indulgence which it reserves for those who speak before it for the first time, and if I transgress the conventional bounds of moderation, I ask the House to reserve its wrath for a future occasion. Whatever I may say, I am chastened in advance by understanding for the first time the full wisdom of the old text: God is in Heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few. I have the honour to represent Cardiff, North, a constituency, which, as most Members of the House will know, lies at the heart of the Welsh capital. It is distinguished in many ways—in its incomparable Civic Centre, in the National Museum of Wales, its University College, Cardiff Castle, and, I think I should add, even Cardiff Arms Park. It is also distinguished, or at least distinguishable, by the fact that alone of Welsh  towns it sends a Conservative Member to this House. I should like to discuss the effect of the Bill upon old age pensioners in particular. My choice has been influenced in part by a letter which I received recently from a pensioner, which I will read to the House: Dear Sir, I write to you as I see you are trying to help us old age pensioners. I am 71 years old, my wife is 68 years old. I am by trade a rat catcher all my life, and worked in the Houses of Parliament and other places. I have lost my work as the Food Minister has taken it over. I think that these next words should be weighed very carefully: I have saved up and live in my own house. I have a good wife, I love her, but sometimes after being married close on 50 years we have to think how to live. She has to go out to work after 50 years. I am proud and I do not want charity. He goes on to tell me that— I have sold my ferrets and dogs and my net traps, but I may do the work only they say I am too old. I suggest that while letters of that kind are written, it is a mockery to talk about our country as being already a welfare State. The Bill should be considered, not simply in isolation, but' in relation to existing social conditions. Things do not seem to me to have got any better for old age pensioners since 14th May, 1948, when the chairmen of five branches of old age pensioners' associations in the Rhondda—where they know much about poverty—wrote to the ""Western Mail"": After three years, old age pensioners are now in worse condition than before the Labour Party came into power. We find that the cost of living has gone up to such an extent that the aged people will have to go without the vital necessities of food and other things that matter in life. I do not seek in a maiden speech to apportion fair shares of blame for that. But that is the voice of the Rhondda, and the House will know what has happened to the cost of living since May, 1948, when that letter was written. The Bill does nothing for the old age pensioner. Dearer petrol will mean dearer and less frequent visits to and from relatives. It may in some cases put the price of the Summer outing to which they so look forward beyond their purses; and it will be reflected in rising prices in   shops, which in turn will be aggravated by the higher cost of distribution which will eventually be caused by the increased tax on new commercial vehicles. Very few will benefit from Income Tax relief or from stronger beer. The House may recall that the National Secretary of the Federation of Old Age Pensioners' Associations, said of the reduction in the price of beer after the last Budget: This will not cheer the old people. Many of them had to give up beer long ago. The Bill fails to tackle the problem of rising prices because it fails to reduce excessive Government expenditure. Hon. Members opposite have asked during the Debate what items of expenditure we on this side would cut and by how much. On a later occasion, when I am more open to be challenged, I should like to give a fairly substantial list; but I should like to give now two examples which I have discovered by process of Question and answer in the House. There are today, for the benefit of the Cabinet and other Government Ministers, 38 cars. These cost the taxpayer £37,600 every year. In addition, in the official car pool there is an average of 573 cars which cost the taxpayer £383,000 a year. Comparing those figures with 1938 it will be seen that in those days only the Home Secretary and Service Ministers had cars provided for them. No comparable figures are available for the official car pool. I would cut this expenditure by 75 per cent. for a start and so save the taxpayer £300,000 a year. Hon. Gentlemen opposite sometimes say, ""But even such cuts as those would not save enough to reduce taxation or to decrease inflationary pressure."" In the first place, that is no argument for waste, and secondly, that is only an assumption until the policy of detailed economy has been applied to every field of State expenditure. A further assumption which is made—it is one which I resent very much—is that the Tory way to cut Government expenditure would be to cut the social services. Grant for the sake of argument, and for that reason alone, that such a charge is true, I should like to ask this question. What principle would separate it from the Socialist policy, as we have known it, of maintaining a high level of Government expenditure,  partly at the price of reducing the purchasing power of social service benefits and so cutting them in that way? But the old age pensioner does not have to choose between the ""cosh"" of a pension cut and having his pocket picked by inflation. I think that there is a third policy, which is one that is avoided by the Bill. When hon. Gentlemen opposite say that they do not know what that policy is, they must surely have been aware of the policy on which the last election was fought by the party on this side of the House, for which almost half the nation voted. It is only when that policy is applied in full that the cost of living can be brought down, that private savings can again be renewed, and the cuts already made in the social services can be restored.
