gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am delighted that I have succeeded in catching the eye of the Chair so that I can make my maiden speech in this debate, because it was on the subject of the economy, particularly the policies put forward by right hon. Members opposite for handling the economy, that my constituents voted. The fact that they returned me with a majority of close on 13,000 shows what they think about those policies. I was elected to represent Sedgefield in County Durham, a constituency which for 20 years was represented by Joe Slater, a gentleman who has gone to serve in another House, where his contribution will be just as great as the contribution he made here. Joe served this House well for 20 years. People here know him. He served the Government well during the time he was a Minister. Above all else, he served the electorate of Sedgefield  well, which is, I believe, why he was returned so many times. To me, the Sedgefield constituency is part of a very special area of Britain. It is part of the south-east corner of County Durham, part of the world which I believe is the power house of Britain. It has been so for most of this century. It was on Durham coal that Britain's industrial prosperity was built. The contribution that the Durham miners and their counterparts in other parts of the country made in two world wars was every bit as great as that made by any soldier, sailor or airman. My constituency, like that of the hon. Member for Esher (Mr. Mather), is changing. Sedgefield has seen great changes in recent years. At one time almost every member of the community looked to the mining industry for his livelihood. Now only one pit is operating. In the place of the pits, new industries, new housing estates and new industrial estates have sprung up. One of the largest chemical complexes in Europe lies within the boundaries of my constituency. In other parts there are new housing estates and new industrial estates which were built by far-sighted local authorities which were quick to see the demands of industry and to provide the facilities in advance of their being required. The influx of new industry into my constituency has shown a remarkable increase during the last five years. This is the result of the measures taken by the Labour Government in furtherance of their development area policies. I accept that not enough was done, because this level of spending on development areas did not go on long enough. This is why I am very concerned, on behalf of my constituents, about the attitude of the present Government towards the development areas. The Gracious Speech refers to stimulating long-term growth in the less prosperous areas. This is fine. We need long-term growth, so long as right hon. Gentlemen opposite do not forget that we also need short-term growth. Unemployment is a question of now—not when right hon. Gentlemen opposite graciously get round to considering the future of men who are out of work. During the election campaign the people in my constituency were given the impression that their future would be   taken care of on a great wave of industrial expansion which would happen when the Conservative Party took office. It is, therefore, somewhat strange that the first announcement following the election is that of a factory closure in the heart of my constituency. I refer to the closure of the Crane factory on the Aycliffe industrial estate which has thrown 150 of my constituents out of work. It is a factory which should be well known to the Prime Minister because he opened it in 1963 during his brief term of responsibility for regional development. What is even more strange, in view of the present Government's apparent concern for the development areas, is that this closure appears to have been brought about by their election victory. In the last two months there have been rumours that this factory might close. The factory had been doing sub-contract work and not its own job of making central heating equipment. Just before the recent election, a notice went up on the factory notice board stating that the shortage of orders might be improved following the result of the General Election. Yet within a fortnight of the result came the announcement that the factory was to be closed. I do not think that is an indication of industrial confidence in the policies of right hon. Gentlemen opposite. What concerns me is how many more firms are in a similar position. How many more firms are on the verge of profitability but are not fully committed to expanding in development areas and might pull out if the level of Government aid dropped? I spent three years working for the North-East Development Council, where I acted as a salesman for the North-East Region. I have some experience of making Government policy work. The policy which I believe the present Government will follow will be the introduction of investment allowances, as opposed to investment grants, as a means of attracting industry. We do not know yet; there has not been a clear statement, as far as I can see. But investment allowances work only if a firm is making a profit, and that is not likely during the early years after a move into a development area. Making a move is  an expensive business. Profit does not come overnight, and if a firm is not making a profit there is nothing against which it can offset the allowance. Investment allowances affect a company's profit figure as a whole. They go back to headquarters and are taken off the profit-and-loss account of the company as a whole. They are not directly related to the size and the nature of the development area factory. That is the second thing that is wrong with investment allowances. The third is that they encourage the establishment not of the lock, stock and barrel transfers of factories, which is what we want, but of branch production units which are the most vulnerable to closing down if a firm's order book should suffer a setback. This is what seems to have happened in the case of this recent closure in my constituency. If the proof of any policy is the effect that it actually has, I think that the current number of jobs in prospect for the Northern Region—something like 42,000 as a result of the Labour Government's direct investment grants—compares favourably with the period in which we had a system of investment allowances when the total number of jobs even in a record year reached only 15,000. Which is the better inducement? Which is the more positive way of attracting new industry? The answer is obvious. I make this plea to the Government: whatever their policy is to be on development areas, will they please make up their minds soon and make an announcement, for any further delay will undermine industrial confidence in the whole concept of development areas. What is more important, it means that the unemployed among my constituents will have to wait while the Government graciously decide their future.
