gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In craving the indulgence which hon. and right hon. Members normally give to a maiden speaker, perhaps I ought to crave more than usual, since I understand that I have inherited the somewhat dubious title of baby of the House. Babies are very easily upset. They have the disquieting habit of crying   louder and for longer than frequently their elders would wish. I may be heard in future to cry loudly for food, but it will be food not for myself but for my constituents. Perhaps there is no need to describe to many hon. and right hon. Members the constituency of Roxburgh, Selkirk and Peebles in detail, because many hon. and right hon. Members were kind enough in recent weeks to visit it. Before coming to what I have to say about the constituency, I should like to pay tribute to the work done by my predecessor, Commander C. E. M. Donaldson. His death came in many senses as a personal loss to people of all political persuasions in the Borders. He was a popular figure, and in the House of Commons was a noted servant whose work as a member of Mr. Speaker's Panel of Chairmen was much appreciated on both sides of the House. I could talk at some length about the great beauty of the Scottish Borders and of its considerable history, but there are many problems facing us there and I would prefer to spend my time talking about them. Our part of the country is one which plays a considerable part in the nation's export drive. Some of the burghs in Roxburgh, Selkirk and Peebles, through their woollen industry, have maintained the highest record in exports for any town in the British Isles. It is a record of which we are particularly proud, but it is not one which should simply be praised and then left at that. We are facing difficulties. There are many opportunities open to Government to ease those difficulties and to enable our traditional industries to make a still greater contribution to the nation's export drive. During the last ten-year census period, 1951–61, there was a drain of population in the Scottish Borders of about 6½ per cent. While this figure may seem high for ten years, a closer examination of the census figures reveals a still more disquieting situation because the drain of population has been concentrated in the age group 20 to 45 and in the group, over the ten year period, the drop in population was not 6½ per cent. but 21 per cent. No part of the country can afford a continual drain of its young and skilled people of that order. This brings me to one of the themes which the Liberal Party has constantly taken up, and that is regionalism. In looking at the Budget, I would have hoped for greater incentives and greater opportunities for the less developed parts of the country. I would draw the Chancellor's attention to an article in the pre-Budget issue of the Economist which said: The Chancellor should turn to bigger regional taxes rather than bigger national ones. Those who bewail the lack of prosperity in Scotland have been right to point out this week that exactly two years ago when unemployment throughout Britain equalled 3·1 per cent, of the insured population the talk was of recession and how to reflate the economy. Today, when unemployment in Scotland equals 3·2 per cent. of the working population, the talk seems to be how to deflate the economy by general measures, which would in fact fall most harshly on Scotland. … I was glad to see a reference in the Budget to improving facilities for certain local authorities to borrow from the Public Works Loan Board. This is certainly a step in the right direction, but I would plead that the local authorities which are allowed to have this concession should not be limited to local authorities within the existing development districts. One of the criticisms which people in my part of the country have of the way in which the development district system has worked is that largely the yardstick is unemployment. We in the Borders have no unemployment on a very large scale and do not qualify as a development district. We have been constantly passed over and yet we have this tremendous drain of population year by year. I consider that depopulation is nothing more than exported unemployment. I would draw the Chancellor's attention to the possibilities of more regional variations in taxation. We have had so far from this Government an increase in the cost of petrol and in the Road Fund tax on commercial vehicles. I suggest that as the price of petrol already varies from one part of the country to the other, according to distribution costs, there is no reason why the tax on petrol should not be regionally varied to assist the furthermost parts of the country. Since the Road Fund tax is administered by local authorities, there should be no great difficulty in varying that either.   But perhaps a more substantial contribution can be made towards helping the less developed parts of the country if a variation could be introduced into the employers' share of the National Insurance contribution. There is no reason why this should be at a flat rate throughout the country. This question of depopulation which concerns us in the Scottish Borders is no local or parochial question. I hesitate to quote no less an authority than an editorial in the Spectator the other week which pointed out that the evils illustrated in the Milner-Holland Report are simply due to population pressure on London, and the social evils which we see at this end of the country, and the overcrowding in London, are part and parcel of the same problem that we see illustrated in the Scottish Borders—the constant movement away of population. I should like to see a passion for regionalism pervading every part of the Government. It is not enough that one Ministry should be concerned with setting up regional economic and planning boards if the same concern is not also expressed through the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, the Ministry of Transport and certainly the Treasury. Twenty years ago a Royal Commission on depopulation reported that population trends should be one of the leading preoccupations of Government. Since then nothing has been done to make it one of the leading preoccupations. I hope that we shall see in future more signs from this Government that they are prepared to make it a preoccupation. It would help solve many of the problems of London and at the same time it would bring greater satisfaction to my constituents.
