gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising for the first time to speak in this House I crave the indulgence of hon. Members. I did not mean to speak so soon after taking my seat in the House. My reason for doing so is that during my 21 years' service in East Africa I formed a very deep affection for the peoples of East Africa, and I trust that I gained some experience of their problems. I have been told that the two essential requirements of a maiden speech are that it should be short and that it should be non-contentious. I shall certainly make a short speech, Mr. Speaker, and I shall endeavour to make it non-controversial on this subject which, I trust all hon. Members will agree, should be approached in a non-party spirit. I believe that all Members of the House and a great majority of the public of the United Kingdom agree in their desire to assist in the social, moral and economic advancement of the African peoples. There appears, however, to be considerable disagreement as to the method to be adopted in achieving that advancement and as to the timing of its progress. No one would wish and no one would be foolish enough to attempt to stop the African's advancement towards a higher standard of living, a greater share in the control of his own affairs, and ultimate self-government, but there is a tendency for certain people with the highest ideals, which we all share, to regard this problem as in the nature of a 120-yard race over low hurdles. It would be much more appropriate to regard it as a steeplechase over many and difficult obstacles which can be overcome only by a sane and   sober approach, and not by what one might call ""rushing our fences."" We cannot stop a river finding its way to the sea, but we should control its course so as to avoid sudden devastating floods which can do untold damage and suffering in the land through which it flows. I do not suggest for a moment that we should unduly delay solution of the present pressing questions in Kenya, such as industrial relations, development of land and soil erosion. I do not suggest that we should curb unduly the natural desire of the educated African to achieve or to accelerate progress towards self-government, but I invite the attention of hon. Members to the fact that this problem does not affect only the educated African. It affects millions of primitive and still in some ways almost savage peoples. I say ""peoples"" because the African population of East Africa is not homogeneous. It consists of a very large number of tribes differing greatly in appearance, habits, social customs and language. They differ more widely than, for example, the inhabitants of South Italy differ from the people of Yorkshire. I regret that there is one common bond. The very great majority of the tribesmen of East Africa still have a deep and unshakeable belief in witchcraft. We owe a duty to these primitive peoples, which is to continue to educate them to improve their economic position. As for the educated African, it is for us to see that he gets an opportunity to use well and properly, and, if possible, in the service of his fellow-Africans, the energy and knowledge which he has gained. We should also take care that he has scope to realise his proper ambition. I have said that we all agree in desiring the advancement of Africans. I trust that we all equally agree on the absolute necessity of doing everything in our power to support the Kenya Government in suppressing the present abominable outbreak of savagery. Opinions may differ as to the underlying cause of the outbreak. When the outbreak is suppressed and when the women and children of all races in Kenya no longer go about in jeopardy of their lives, then will be the time for a thorough and careful investigation into the root cause of the  Mau Mau outbreak. In the meantime, I trust that no one, either within this House or outside it, will say or do anything which will render more difficult the task of the authorities in Kenya and, I would add, of the loyal, and moderate Africans, who are gallantly assisting the authorities. I would end by referring to the most valuable and important document which has been made available to us, Sir Philip Mitchell's Despatch on ""Land and Population in East Africa."" As a man with a lifetime experience of East Africa and its problems, as a man with a deep love of all the inhabitants of East Africa, irrespective of colour or race, Sir Philip Mitchell has given us a most comprehensive and wisely drawn picture of the problems which require investigation. A Royal Commission has been appointed and is about to function. Let us pray that great good will follow from their investigations. In the meantime, let us do and say nothing which may jeopardise that investigation or alienate the good will of the many persons of all races in Kenya who are anxious to work together in bringing prosperity and happiness to that land.
