gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
For some three months now I have pondered upon the wisdom of Disraeli's advice to a young hon. Member:  It is better that people should wonder why you do not speak than why you do "". The time has come, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for me to throw caution to the winds, and I am most grateful to you for calling me so early in the debate to make my maiden contribution. I have the honour to represent a constituency which, over the past 40 years,   has been served devotedly by two Members of Parliament. Sir Hugh Linstead, who represented the constituency from 1941 to 1964, will be well remembered by some of the older hon. Members in this House. He has remained a resident of Putney, taking an extremely active and diligent part in local affairs. I owe him an enormous debt of gratitude for the help and support he has given to me, enabling me to be where I am today. I should also like to pay a genuine tribute to my immediate predecessor, Mr. Hugh Jenkins. By his own choice, Hugh Jenkins was politically a very controversial figure, not merely as perceived from the Conservative Benches. One matter on which there is no room for controversy is Hugh Jenkins' diligence in serving the interests of his constituents. He is well remembered in all parts of the constituency of Putney, and will be well remembered for many years. I wish him a long and happy retirement in Putney, where he still lives. Putney has long been one of London's most pleasant residential areas. The modern constituency of Putney consists of the communities of Southfields, Roehampton and Putney itself. It is small in area but substantial in population, and particularly diverse in the type of accommodation to be found within its very limited boundaries. Large detached villas, neat terraces, large, modern, private blocks of flats and some of London's most impressive postwar council estates make up this fascinating constituency. Putney is fascinating but it can present difficulties on issues such as the one we are debating, or abortion or hanging, where there is not the common ground in constituents' letters as I understand is the case with certain hon. Members. One must take one's courage in both hands on this, as on other issues, and state firmly where one stands, though, I hope, always remaining open to sensible and intelligent argument. Putney is a challenging constituency and I express the hope, at the outset of my parliamentary career, that I can rise to the challenge as effectively as both my predecessors did in their different ways. I hope that I, in my turn, will enjoy as long a stay in this place as they did.  Turning to today's Bill, which was so effectively proposed by the hon. Member for Glasgow, Kelvingrove (Mr. Carmichael), it saddens me to say that I am unable to be persuaded into the Lobby in his support. This Bill is a well-meaning attempt to compel people to do what others decree to be in their best interests, and as such I am opposed to it. This argument should not revolve around whether it is a good things to wear seat belts. If I may be forgiven the pun, it is not such an open and shut argument as one or two hon. Members might try to persuade us that it is. I entirely support the motoring organisations which seek to persuade motorists of the common sense of the measure, and I admire the extraordinary skill displayed by the television and cinema advertising of the organisations which propose the wearing of seat belts. It is on the point of compulsion that I, with perhaps more strength and vigour as a practising lawyer, oppose this measure. This is not a question of wider public interest or concern than the safety of the individual himself. It is not the same as drunken driving or speeding where the lives of others can be endangered. The only person who suffers is the individual who chooses whether or not to wear a seat belt. I hear various hon. Members tutting, no doubt regretting that this is a maiden speech. If it were not, no doubt they would sail into me at full force at this point. However, perhaps I might be allowed at least one calm voyage in my career. Perhaps I can advance the argument that many hon. Members might wish to put; a lot of public money is spent on repairing the damage caused to people who do not wear seat belts. But where, in the end, does that argument take us? A number of people are injured crossing the roads without using pedestrian crossings. Are we to make it compulsory, and have people hauled before the magistrates' court for not obeying the green cross code? That is every bit as logical as some of the arguments put forward in favour of compulsion. The libertarian argument is not the only one. I may be forgiven if I draw on some   of my experience of personal injury litigation to make one or two detailed points. Yesterday, I think we were all agreed that statistics, in terms of the capital punishment debate, proved very little. I am inclined to wonder whether we should not carry some of that scepticism into this debate. There is a certain glibness about saying that X thousand accidents or injuries would not have taken place if people had been wearing seat belts. The High Court has decreed, as hon. Members will be aware, that if someone who fails to wear a seat belt is injured and it can be established on the balance of probabilities that, but for failing to wear a seat belt the individual would not have been injured, his damages are reduced by 25 per cent. If it can be shown that the individual would have been injured, but not so seriously, had he been wearing a seat belt, his damages can be reduced by 15 per cent. I should have thought that that was a formidable disincentive and might be enough. Taking that argument a stage further, it is commonplace, in personal injury cases, for the defence to advance the argument of contributory negligence. It is not so commonplace that contributory negligence is established in those cases that do go to court. Indeed, it is the exception, rather than the rule, when medical evidence is advanced in the witness box, to say that someone would not have been so gravely injured. It is by no means as easy a proposition to prove on the evidence as some of those who advance that argument seem to think. The other point that hon. Members should seriously consider before supporting this Bill is the safety of the seat belts that we shall make it compulsory for people to wear. I entirely endorse what my hon. Friend the Member for Burton (Mr. Lawrence) said when he interjected during the speech of the hon. Member for Glasgow, Kelvingrove. The design of seat belts fitted in British cars leaves a great deal to be desired. The question is whether we are right to compel people, against their will, to wear seat belts over which hangs any shadow of doubt. I hope that those hon. Members who propose to support this Bill will at least look at the answer to my parliamentary question yesterday to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport. That related to  the transport and road research laboratory's report on inertia seat belts. That report establishes that the two types of belt are subject to a slight, but significant, risk of malfunction and that there is a lesser risk of malfunction in another type of belt due to the possibility of incorrect assembly. Is it not, to say the least, a little premature to advance the argument of compulsion while any question mark hangs over the safety of the seat belts which we shall make it mandatory for people to wear? I do not want to dwell at length on the question of exemptions. I accept the argument that wiser heads than mine have advanced that this is a matter of detail for Committee stage should we, unhappily, reach that point. However, it was argued very cogently against my hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Griffiths) that it was no good giving someone a blank cheque on capital punishment. It was necessary to know the practicalities of the circumstances in which it could be introduced. Whilst I was grateful to the hon. Member for Kelvingrove for his candour when he said that he did not think that many exemptions should be allowed, I wonder whether that is not a proposition that we should look at with some care. If we look at the cases in the High Court on this subject, we see that the Court of Appeal has already allowed exemptions, based on the facts, in the cases of a heavily pregnant woman and an obese man. Recently in the High Court an exemption was granted to someone who suffered from a phobia about wearing seat belts. Are those to be embraced within the terms of the regulations? I sincerely hope so, otherwise some of the arguments about the saving of public money advanced by hon. Members today are likely to rebound on them. What is the point of saving public money in hospitals if we add gratuitously to the expenditure of public money arguing these issues before highly expensive British courts of law? The costs involved in a magistrates' hearing to determine whether someone had a legitimate reason for not wearing a seat belt will amount to a substantial and significant increase in the public expenditure in our courts. I turn briefly to the subject of enforcement. No doubt if this legislation is   passed people will have to be brought before the courts for being in breach of it. How many hon. Members are prepared to countenance that when considering the present situation in our magistrates' courts? The number of people who came before the British criminal courts last year was 1½ million. One million of those cases—2 per cent. of our citizens—were concerned solely with road traffic offences. The lists at many urban and suburban magistrates' courts are enormous. Delays are almost a public scandal. Are we gratuitously to add to that pressure on court space by bringing these cases before the courts? It may be that the object is not to have many prosecutions, but a law not enforced is a law ignored. A law ignored is a law brought into disrepute, and a law brought into disrepute is the entire law brought into disrepute, because the law of England is one and indivisible. We should also consider the strain upon the police forces of this country. Police forces are undermanned, and already cannot cope with the workload thrust upon them. Even if they could, are hon. Members not persuaded of the force of the observations that have so often been made by the police and others about the enormous damage done to police-public relations by the intervention of the police in motoring offences, which causes enormous resentment among members of the public? We should be looking, as I know my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport is, at cutting down the intervention of the police in this area, rather than seeking gratuitously to increase it. I am glad to see my right hon. Friend nod assent. It is to the libertarian argument that I return. In essence, the Bill is fatally flawed by "" big brotherism "". Just because it is well meaning "" big brotherism "" does not make it any less pernicious. If passed into law, it will be another—perhaps not vast—step away from individual freedom. Those who value a free society must willingly embrace situations where some of our fellow citizens, some of the time, are entitled to behave foolishly if they so wish. It is on that basis that I urge hon. Members, I hope at not too intolerable a length, to vote against the Second Reading of the Bill.
