gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am pleased to have been called to speak in this debate because I know that my predecessor, Archie Manuel, would have contributed were he still representing Central Ayrshire. He was known affectionately by hon. Members on both sides of the House as ""Archie"" and his many friends will be glad to know that after serving this constituency for 25 years he is now retired and is enjoying life in his home in the West Highlands. I have been told by hon. Members that Archie's name appears in HANSARD more frequently than that of any other hon. Member, mainly because of his interruptions and points of order. During his 25 years here he was not prepared to allow a statement to go by without challenging it, if he thought it should be challenged. I am sure that at times you needed all your power, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to get him to resume his seat. With his hot Highland blood, Archie could not stand a wrong argument. He could always see the truth in any case, especially if he was deploying it. I now represent Central Ayrshire, one of five constituencies in Ayrshire. Although this is the first constituency that I have represented, I appear here after having fought five parliamentary campaigns. Indeed, I have been fighting elections since 1955. Hon. Members will realise that I have travelled a hard road to get here. Having got here, I shall be staying for a long time. I shall do so by giving the same service that was given by Archie Manuel—and while I hope that after I have served my constituency for 25 years similar words of affect-  tion will be used towards me, I trust that I shall not give you too much trouble, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I promise to behave myself. It is not very difficult to remain a Scottish Labour M.P. Indeed, if the present Government continue to introduce policies similar to those which they have introduced in the last six months there will be many more Scottish Labour M.P.s. Even the Under-Secretary of State for Health and Education, the hon. Member for Glasgow, Cathcart (Mr. Edward Taylor), will find it difficult to get re-elected. The people of Scotland recognise that the Labour Party carries out policies which are to their benefit. In one way, I congratulate the Government on introducing the Bill: it shows that they are trying to implement a promise which they gave to the people of Scotland at the last election. They are carrying out something which they said they would carry out. However, I hope that the spokesman who winds up the debate from our side of the House will assure us that quick action will be taken when we regain control to rescind this Measure. During the last five-and-a-half years we have had too many committees and commissions on education in Scotland. I am fed up with commissions on education. It is a traditional English method of shelving decisions on education. I hope that my right hon. and hon. Friends will give an assurance that they will do away with fees, not only in local authority schools but in any sector of education, and that they will do away with grant-aided schools and independent schools. The Bill is irrelevant to Central Ayrshire because there are no local authority fee-paying schools in it. Fee-paying in local authority schools was brought to an end in Ayrshire in 1946. In fact, the Bill is irrelevant to the majority of Scotland because it deals with only a very small proportion of children in educational establishments. It has been said that the Bill affects primarily Glasgow and Edinburgh. That is not so. It affects a very small minority of the children who attend schools in Glasgow and Edinburgh. In Glasgow and Edinburgh there is a comprehensive system which was brought into being by my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Ross). However, although   the Bill is irrelevant to the people of Scotland, an important principle attaches to it, and it is on that principle that I should like to speak. It has been said by my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock that we have a tradition of comprehensive education in Scotland. No one can deny that. Anyone who tries to deny it, as the hon. Member for Glasgow, Hillhead (Mr. Galbraith) did, shows not only that he was not educated in a Scottish school, but that he knows nothing about conditions in education in Scotland. We have always had a democratic tradition of education in Scotland. From the time of John Knox, when our neighbourhood schools were introduced, we have jealously guarded that democratic tradition. We have said that every child, whatever his family or social background, should go to the school nearest to his door. It has been a Scottish tradition that children—whether they be the children of ministers, doctors, teachers or dustmen—should go to the same type of school. The Bill attacks this principle. There is a different tradition in England. I can well understand right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite knowing more about the English tradition than the Scottish tradition. There is an aristocratic tradition of education in England. Because of the tradition in Scotland, we can stand up proudly in this House or anywhere else and say that the standards of education in Scotland are among the highest in the world. Although we have one or two faults, mainly due to the lack of money, we can still say that Scottish education is among the best in the world. The reason for this is that everyone in Scotland has been interested in the State system of education. If the State system is bad in my area in Ayrshire, it is bad not only for working-class children but for the children of my family. That is why in Scotland there has been an education lobby which has taken in all sections of the population, demanding better standards of education in State schools. A clear guide to educational standards in Scotland lies in the qualifications and standards of the teaching profession. Over 50 per cent. of Scottish teachers are graduates or graduate equivalents. In the secondary sector, whether private or  local authority, every teacher is not only a qualified graduate or graduate equivalent but is forced to take a year's training at a teacher training college. Under 20 per cent. of the teachers in England are graduates or graduate-equivalents, and very few of them have been forced to take training in a teacher training college. English standards are certainly coming up to Scottish standards, but they are still far behind. Because of the Scottish tradition of local State education, our public schools are the State schools. It is our job to ensure that our public schools in Scotland supply the best possible education for the children. I was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Perth and East Perthshire (Mr. MacArthur) say that he could quote evidence of a demand among the teaching profession in Glasgow for the retention of fee-paying schools. I do not mind the hon. Gentleman speaking about Perth, but I object to his speaking about conditions in education in Glasgow. As a former teacher, I say that the last person I would ask for an opinion on education would be a headmaster—I say that with all due deference to you, Mr. Speaker. I would go to the teachers for such an opinion. As a former leader of the teachers in Scotland, and a former chairman of the Glasgow branch of the Educational Institute of Scotland, I can tell the hon. Member for Perth and East Perthshire the opinion of teachers in Glasgow. They have clearly stated that they are in favour of the abolition of fees. I say to the hon. Gentleman: do not ask five headmasters; ask the 7,000 Glasgow teachers what is their opinion as expressed through their representatives. As a representative of the teachers on the local joint consultative committee with the Glasgow Corporation, I have on many occasions put forward a case on behalf of Glasgow teachers for the withdrawal of fees. The teachers are in favour of the Labour Government's proposals, not of the Conservative Government's proposals. I hope, therefore, that at this late date hon. Members opposite will recognise the traditions of Scottish education, and realise that by continuing with a policy of fee-paying schools they are cutting into   the comprehensive principle. No matter how we camouflage it, we cannot have a comprehensive system of education and still allow fee-paying selective schools. It is impossible. I am not pessimistic. The Bill will come into operation, if it is passed, on 1st August, 1971. Before that, we shall have the local government elections. I am quite sure, and the right hon. Gentleman is also quite sure, that when the results are announced, at least from Glasgow, after the May elections, Labour will again have control of Glasgow Corporation. We should never have lost it. We lost it through stupidity and fighting amongst ourselves. Speaking on behalf of Glasgow and Glasgow Labour Party, I am quite sure—I shall get into a row with some of the hon. Members for Glasgow present for stating this—that Labour will again have control of the city of Glasgow. I realise that I am speaking in the presence of some ex-Glasgow councillors, who may be a bit to blame for the situation, but I hope that this time they will have a little more courage and that they will stand up against any reactionary forces, no matter from which direction they come, and that they will advise their colleagues who will control Glasgow after May to do away with the fee-paying schools. Whether we are defeated tonight or not, we shall win on the streets of Glasgow in May, though, I am not so sure about my friends in Edinburgh. They are a snobbish lot there, and fee paying and snobbery go together. But even the people of Edinburgh are beginning now to wake up. It will be a proud day for this side of the House when we can say that Royal Edinburgh, with all its traditions, is under the control of the Labour Party. Irrespective of the result tonight, we shall then deal with the fee-paying schools in Edinburgh and bring them into the comprehensive system of which we are all proud. I hope that the Government will have second thoughts and will have listened to the appeal from this side of the House, because, to use a football chant, ""We are the people of Scotland"".
