gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my maiden speech. It is a particular pleasure for me to follow the right hon. Member for Birmingham, Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins) against whom I contested two elections. The House will not be surprised to know that the right hon. Gentleman increased his majority on both occasions, though I must point out that since I left Stechford he has not done quite so well. He has, of course, been Chancellor of the Exchequer since then. As the Member of Parliament for Leek I follow a Member, Mr. Harold Davies, who sat in this House for 25 years and enjoyed a great deal of respect from both sides of the House. He held office in the Labour Government as Parliamentary Secretary to the now defunct Ministry of Pensions and, more recently, as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the former Prime Minister. Mr. Davies was not only respected in this House, but also in his constituency. He looked after the interests of supporters and opponents alike with diligence. I think that both in this House and in Leek his elevation to another place has been warmly welcomed. Leek is one of the most beautiful constituencies in England. Perhaps I should emphasise the words ""in England"", because the name of the constituency and that of the former Member may suggest that it is Welsh. Now it has a Scottish Member to add to the confusion. Apart from its great beauty, Leek contains a cross-section of England. It has a large agricultural area, it has quarrying and mining, it has textiles and the computer industry, and there is a variety of very small to very large firms. In addition, just to keep up to date, there is a large commuting population to Stoke and to the towns of South Cheshire. I intervene in the debate because my constituents are naturally concerned with economic prosperity. They believe that economic prosperity is indivisible. They want national prosperity because they know that that will mean prosperity for them as well. I will concentrate my remarks on two particular aspects of the Chancellor's statement last week. First, the proposal next April to reduce the standard rate of income tax by 6d. in the pound. I raise this point because it seems that a great deal of nonsense has been talked about it. It really is absurb to start making arithmetical calculations which, it is true, show little change for most people, and to conclude that this reduction in taxation will have no incentive effect. This argument fails to understand what the reduction is trying to do. The real point about any reduction in income tax is that people think that they pay much more in the pound in income tax than they in fact do and, because they think this, they behave as though they do. So long as they think this, so long will the current rates of income tax will have a strong disincentive effect. I am sure that hon. Members on both sides, in discussions with people about overtime, will have heard the remark, ""This man or that man does not work overtime because he thinks that he pays 15s. in the pound in income tax."" We know that this is not true. At least, it is true only of those in the surtax class. But because people think that at current rates they are paying this large amount in income tax, the current rates act as a real disincentive. I believe that by cutting income tax in the way that my right hon. Friend has proposed, he has made a real contribution to persuading people that income tax in future will not be the burden that they think it has been. In this way this measure will have a real incentive effect in future. Secondly, I should like to express regret that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor said last week, and reiterated today, that the reductions in income tax and in public expenditure taken together will, therefore, be broadly neutral in their effect on demand in 1971–72. Of course, as my right hon. Friend conceded earlier today, there will be an opportunity in next year's Budget to alter this. I welcome the assurance that the Chancellor gave on this score this afternoon. At the same time, I urge my right hon. Friend to think seriously about the early expansion of the economy. If we go through next year without any general reflation not only will the present unemployment situation continue for at least two years, but a large number of married women and elderly people will also remain out of work even though they would be willing to work. There is also the general under-utilisation both of labour and of capital in industry which is more prevalent than some Treasury Ministers not only in this Government, but also in the last Labour Government, seem to suggest. We also need this reflation to get general growth. We can achieve our full industrial potential only by an expansion of demand. I understand, I hope, the argument put forward by my right hon. Friend that consumer demand is already rising. It would be very surprising if it were not rising at present, but how permanent is this rise in demand? At present, incomes are going up rapidly. Prices are going up quickly, but not quite so quickly. But price increases, which are consequent upon income increases, always lag rather behind income increases. So, obviously, there is an upsurge in real terms in consumer demand at present, but I confess to some doubt about how permanent this is. I think that it will tend to flatten out in due course. If I am right, we are left with the problem of the economy operating for some time substantially below capacity. I know that some people produce clever  and ingenious arguments to deny this, but an unemployment rate of 600,000 is sure evidence that the economy is at present working below capacity. Again, some will argue that in current conditions of income inflation we dare not reflate because of the effect on income increases, but this is hardly a very strong argument because since 1968 we have had excessively high wage increases in conditions of remarkably high unemployment. For a long time in the 'fifties and early 'sixties we had the Paishite argument that if we only had a little more unemployment it would cure cost inflation. Well, we have had a lot more unemployment and cost inflation has got a great deal worse. I conclude by summing up the advantages there seem to me to be in a general reflation of the economy. First, it would use up resources in labour and capital which I believe are now under-utilised. Second, the increase in demand would encourage investment—and it has always seemed to me rather foolish to expect investment to increase unless industrialists feel that they are likely to get some return in the form of increased sales. Third, if one can promote extra demand in the private sector this can help to redress the balance between the public and private expenditure which the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and we on this side, wish. Fourth, I believe that an expansion in the economy can be particularly important in relation to the crucial capital intensive industries because of a consequent reduction that would come about in unit costs, and so the possibility of reduced prices. Finally, and I suggest most important of all as a reason for reflation, is the fact that it would lead to repromoting confidence in manufacturing industry. It is all very well to promote financial measures—that may well restore confidence in the City—and no one would underestimate their importance, but financial measures on their own do not restore confidence in manufacturing industry. Confidence in manufacturing industry will come about only if there is a steady increase in industrial activity and a rise in orders. No one should underestimate the importance of confidence in manufacturing industry as a contribution to Britain's future economic prosperity. The House has listened to my slightly controversial views with patience and tolerance, and I am most grateful to all hon. and right hon. Members for their kindness on this occasion which, to me, has been something of an ordeal.
