gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a generous and welcome tradition which enables a Member addressing the House for the first time to appeal for mercy and to know that he will be granted it, and this I do out of dire necessity. I recently had the good fortune to be released from the Army with my release group, and I would like to pay my humble tribute to the efficiency and imagination of those who organised that pleasing valediction They made us feel that the Army was proud of us and grateful to us and sorry to part with us. The clothing issue was particularly well organised.  One got a suit of which one will be glad this coming winter, good shoes and a most beautiful raincoat. Unfortunately, however, though there was a large choice of ties, one could not find a tie which one could wear on this side of the House. The Government, when they first came into office, must have counted themselves very fortunate in having, by way of a solution of one of the major problems of the day, the Class A release scheme which met with almost universal approval; and I think most of us heaved a sigh of relief and thought it would go through all right. We thought that the only difference of opinion would perhaps be dictated by circumstances and would be a difference of opinion as to the speed with which the scheme would apply; and the scheme most of us thought to be fool-proof. But three months of the application of the scheme have shown that it is capable of losing much of its advantages. When we find that, already, after only three months there are disparities between the three Services, between the various commands, between ranks and between specialists, we realise that the scheme is capable of being misinterpreted. Let us not lose hope, however; and may I as a very insignificant Member of an insignificant but bold minority put forward my plea to His Majesty's Government that they will try as fairly as possible, especially in view of the encouragement given by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) to-day, to retrieve the situation and to get back as nearly as they possibly can to the strict application of the scheme. I suggest that as far as the application of the scheme is concerned there need be only two limiting factors, military necessity and availability of transport; and as far as departure from the scheme is concerned, nothing justifies wholesale departures from the scheme, and individual and particular departures can be justified only by way of Class B and Class C releases. May I make a few observations upon each of these four factors—military necessity, availability of transport, and Class B and Class C. With regard to military necessity, naturally we all wish, in Tennyson's words, that the Government could: Ring out the thousand wars of old;  Ring in the thousand years of peace. But looking round the world to-day one is compelled to realise that it might be several years before we can reduce our   Forces to the pre-war peace-time level. I am not going to be so bold as to say whether the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford or the Government is right about the precise forces which will have to be kept alive; but the fact that those Forces will, in any event, be considerable is the strongest possible argument for ensuring that the morale of those Forces is sustained by the fair and strict application of the release scheme. On the question of military necessity, I would remind the House that it is not the military necessity of war-time, it is not operational necessity, with which we have to deal to-day. It is the military necessity of troops in occupation, of troops in training, of troops doing garrison duty and of troops at rest. That is a very different thing, and it should compel the Service Departments to concede as much as they possibly can in the national interest in order to secure that the application of the scheme is as fair and strict as possible. I share the views of the hon. and gallant Member for Oswestry (Colonel Poole) on the question of the deferment of officers. It was well known that during the war, even when units were having very heavy casualties indeed, the officer training units were getting on with their job at such a fast rate that replacements came along, not always as everybody would wish, but at not too bad a rate. One wonders what is happening now to the officer training units. Are they still in existence? Have they a reduced rate of output? What has happened? Are officers being trained? Perhaps when this Debate is wound up this is another question to which we can have a reply from the Government. I do not wish to cover ground with regard to transport which has already been covered; but we are told on many occasions in this House in answers to Questions, that a thing cannot be done because there is not the transport available for it. No doubt, sooner or later our patience will be exhausted by that reply; but even now outside this House, in the country, I feel sure that there are a great many people who are getting rather tired of it. After all, ships are not working in convoy now. We no longer have large convoys of ships bound for abroad with arms, munitions and men. We no longer have to supply vast Forces overseas. It is a continuously decreasing  number of troops which we have to supply; and, surely, if these factors are borne in mind, we might reasonably hope that, in the very near future at any rate, the limiting factor of availability of transport will cease to be material in the consideration of this matter. While mentioning these two questions of military necessity and availability of transport, may I refer, because I feel that they are essentially intertwined with these matters, to the subject of length of service overseas and leave from overseas? For too long now, those three old-timers of the military stage Python, Liap and Lilop, have been boring their audiences to tears. Python has been doing a most macabre performance, torturing his victims for as long as possible without actually killing them, while Liap creates a diversion by prancing to and fro across the stage, waving a ticket in a leave ballot, drawn by a glamorous A.T.S. and Lilop raises hopes in the next victims of Python by putting them on board a ship for England, which, however, turns out to be on a revolving stage, and so they came back again. I would ask the Government very seriously—and I am being serious over this—to consider the position of these people who have been overseas for four or five years. The Secretary of State has candidly admitted that they are there; and many of them are veterans of the war in the desert and the jungle, who settled down to what are mainly administrative jobs, either because they could go no further, or because it was felt they could do an administrative job better or for one reason or another. The medical authorities, to their credit, have insisted that three years is quite long enough in those climates for anybody. I know one case of an officer, who joined the Territorials in 1936, served continuously from the beginning of the war, served in France, went out to the Middle East in 1941, took an administrative post under Civil Affairs, and who is still in the Middle East. Not only has he had no home leave since then, but his release has been deferred. We know that, in the national interest, there must be exceptional cases; but I know of my own knowledge that there is quite a considerable number of officers and men in that position, and I would most earnestly, on behalf of those officers and men and in the interest of fairness, ask for the most special consideration for them.   Now I will deal with the question of compassionate releases, about which it is very difficult to talk dispassionately. There are people of the older generation who have been keeping small businesses going throughout the war years. They have been doing so single-handed in many cases, and they have coped with the great difficulties of filling in forms and handling ration cards, and have served their particular neighbourhood very wonderfully throughout that time. Six years of this struggle are beginning to make them feel very old before their time. That is particularly true, I think, of the people in the rural areas, who are pretty dogged. They will not give up. They know that, if they stopped supplying meat or milk or whatever it may be, there is nobody else to take over. There is another point about it, which is that, unless they do go on until their sons come back from the Forces, the sons will not have a business, which to them is a job, to which to return. While demobilisation is going on, one might have hoped that the Government would have been generous to these people. I feel that some Members of the Government are really doing their very best to help in this matter; but I have sent a good many letters to them asking that something should be done, and, frankly, I was a little surprised when, in my mail this morning, I found that what I was doing was apparently wrong, in that it was said to confuse the usual method of dealing with these matters. If the usual channels are dealing with these matters satisfactorily, I would be the first to desist. I should probably lose a vote every time I did desist, but that would not matter. But are they working properly? The figures for September as given by the Secretary of State for War show the following compassionate releases: Army, just over 3,000;Royal Air Force, just over 30; Royal Navy, just over 30. The Army figures, in the present circumstances are meagre enough; but something really disgraceful seems to be happening to the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy. Perhaps one of the right hon. Gentlemen on the Front Bench will clarify this. On Class B releases, there is only one short point which I wish to make. As the scheme seems to be working at the moment, and it may be the only way in  which it will work, the principle seems to be that the men are ""hand-picked""; that is to say, when there is to be a block release of men in a particular trade, say 1,000 individuals, they are picked out by the War Office and pulled out of the Service. But the men who are eligible to be picked out under block releases naturally take it to heart when they see other people going home before them. It may well be that this is unavoidable, and I am not criticising the War Office; but, as the hon. Member who preceded me has pointed out, it is most important that the scheme should not only be fair, but it should be explained to the men as being fair. They must be told about these things, or they will feel a sense of grievance and their morale will suffer. I conclude by repeating my inadequate plea on behalf of thousands of small shopkeepers, small farmers, and small builders who are growing old too soon, and on behalf of young wives who have been lonely for too long, and I ask the Government to do everything they possibly can to speed the return of these men who have been so long awaiting it, after serving their country so well.
