gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am most grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me the opportunity of making my maiden speech today. I congratulate the hon. Member for Nelson and Colne (Mr. Lee) on his most interesting maiden speech, which I am sure will be the first of many that he will make in the House. It is a great honour for me to represent the people of Glasgow, Shettleston in the House. In so doing I am conscious of the great men and women Members of Parliament who have preceded me. It is always difficult to follow in the footsteps of illustrious Members of Parliament. I follow Sir Myer Galpern, your immediate predecessor, Mr. Deputy Speaker, who, in his distinguished career, served the people of Shettleston for 48 years, 28 as a local councillor and for the past 20 as their Member of Parliament. He also held the highest public office of the city of Glasgow—that of Lord Provost. In this House, Sir Myer served as one of its bestloved Deputy Speakers. I am informed that he was extremely impartial—especially towards hon. Members who disagreed with his point of view. He held the affection and support of people in Shettleston, in Glasgow, and in this House—all of whom he loved and for whom he worked extremely hard. I am sure that the House will be as delighted as I am that this week he has been made a life peer and that he will continue to serve his people in the other place. His wisdom and integrity will always be of value, and I, for one, shall be glad of his counsel. Shettleston is a politically renowned constituency, having had only three Members of Parliament in the past 50 years. The first was John Wheatley, who was the father of the plan to have local authority housing, which gave working people their first chance of a decent home for themselves and their families. He also became an outstanding Minister of Health. The next Member of Parliament for the constituency was John McGovern, who was closely involved in the struggles of the 1930s. The next Member of Parliament was Sir Myer Galpern. They are all famous men in the great tradition of Clydeside. It is in that tradition of service to the people that I hope to follow. Shettleston is one of the workshops of Glasgow, situated in the east end of the city, bounded on one side by the river Clyde, and containing the districts of Carntyne, Camlachie, Tollcross and Parkhead, as well as Shettleston. The major sources of employment are manufacturing industries in general, food and drink industries, engineering and public services.   Unlike some of my hon. Friends who, in their maiden speeches, extolled the virtues of their local refreshment, my constituency does not possess a distillery. However, we are the home of Scotland's other national drink—according to the advertising slogan—which is Barr's Iron Brew. My constituency is the workshop of Glasgow. Its families contain a high proportion of people of Highland and Irish extraction. Those families have one major aim—to have their children educated and to find good jobs. It is no accident that some of the top doctors, educationists, lawyers and skilled workmen in Scotland and beyond were brought up in Shettleston. It is one of the great tragedies of the so-called never-had-it-so-good era that the only place where this talent could be utilised was elsewhere, and even abroad. I must mention one of Shettleston's notable firsts. On the first occasion ever that the European champion soccer trophy came to Great Britain—in 1967—it was won by Glasgow Celtic. It rested at Parkhead stadium. If I may be permitted to make a forecast, it will return there next year when Celtic take it away from Nottingham Forest. I come to this House as a Transport and General Workers' Union-sponsored Member of Parliament and a former shop steward in Glasgow transport. I come also as the chairman of the Strathclyde regional council's manpower committee, which deals with matters affecting more than 112,000 employees, making it one of the largest employers in Britain. In addition, I am the chairman of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities manpower committee, chairman of the employers' side of the National Joint Councils (Scottish Councils) for local authorities, and a member of the local authorities conditions of service advisory board. I am in the process of relinquishing those posts. However, I make the point that I have had experience of both sides of industrial relations. I cannot accept that the Budget is anything other than a deliberate attack on the working class of this country. The effect, for instance, on Strathclyde regional council could be either approximately 4,000 redundancies or the loss of 4,000 job opportunities in an area of high unemployment. The prospect of cancelling the dispersal of Civil Service jobs to Glasgow fills me  with horror. Glasgow desperately needs these jobs. I ask the Government, in the name of decency and humanity, not to stop these jobs coming to Glasgow. At least the Government should give us something to which we might look forward. Many small businesses and shopkeepers will be forced out of business by the Budget because people will not be able to afford their goods. The most vulnerable members of society face a miserable existence. How will they pay for the increased costs of coal, electricity, rent, rates, transport, clothes and food? The trade union and Labour movement will not stand by and allow that to happen. I was speaking at a meeting of the Transport and General Workers Union shop stewards in Glasgow last Saturday. I am in no doubt. Glasgow will organise and fight for what it needs and deserves. I return to another notable first in Shettleston—one which is crucial to the future of the area, and which has had considerable influence on similar inner city areas in Great Britain. I refer to the creation in May 1976 of the Glasgow eastern area renewal project—or GEAR as it is known—which covers my constituency and that of my hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow, Central (Mr. McMillan). GEAR was the first project of its kind in Britain and the blueprint for the English partnership areas which were established following the previous Labour Government's White Paper on the policy for the inner cities which was published in June 1977. GEAR as a concept was a bold step forward to regenerate Glasgow's east end not just economically but socially and environmentally. Post-war experience has shown that it is a waste of time just building houses. What is needed is a concerted multi-disciplined effort which takes an area and rebuilds a community in all its aspects. It is a matter of great sadness that such a project should ever have been needed in an area whose products were sold throughout the world but which did not see in investment terms any return on the efforts of these working people. Shettleston, and places like it, were what   made Britain great, and the GEAR project was not any grand gesture of goodness on the part of central Government. It was merely paying back what was due a long time ago to an area which had seen its efforts rewarded with reinvestment elsewhere—especially in the South-East of England. If GEAR is anything, it is simply giving a damn about neglect in an area whose traditional industries have fallen into decline, whose young and skilled have moved out—encouraged by the Toothill new towns growth policy—to East Kilbride and Cumbernauld. It left decaying tenements where private landlords would not do even the most essential of repairs. It left a scandalous lack of amenities for young and old alike—no cinemas, no sports centres, and school buildings more than 100 years old. In short, it was an area where all the miseries associated with urban decay and blight were about to take over. Between 1971 and 1975, 5,500 jobs were lost—a drop of 11½ per cent., and four times the average for Glasgow as a whole. Male unemployment in one area, Camlachie, stands at 28 per cent., according to one recent survey. Despite this, the GEAR area still provides more than 40,000 jobs, or 10 per cent. of the total for Glasgow, with only 5 per cent. of the city's population. It contains the largest concentration of jobs outside the city centre, but unfortunately a very large proportion of these jobs are taken up by people from outwith the area. Hence the need for special action, and hence the need for GEAR. GEAR is £187 million worth of action in a concerted effort between 1977 and 1982—under the aegis of the Scottish Development Agency—from Strathclyde regional council, Glasgow district council, the Scottish Special Housing Association, the Housing Corporation and the Greater Glasgow health board. It is not just investment in monetary terms but investment in people's futures, where real action is taking place—not just talking. It means rehabilitation, new factories, parks and amenities, and new houses. Families who had moved out of the area are trying to return. Also quite significant is the fact that the chief constable of Strathclyde has noted a decrease  in crime in the area. It shows that a response from the community is available if it is seen that we care about it and its future. Where there may have been despair there is now hope and interest. I congratulate the SDA and the other participants on the good work done in the area. Long may it continue. However, of the £187 million estimated, only £35 million had been spent as at March 1979, leaving £152 million due to be spent over the next three years. The project is only just starting to take off, if the Government do not prevent it. The people of Shettleston feared the return of a Conservative Government. They feared that the prospects of promised cuts in public spending would destroy their dream of the much promised and long-overdue better future. I give one example. One of the top schools in the area, Eastbank academy, was built in the nineteenth century. It is one of the schools I mentioned which provided some of the most eminent men in many professions throughout the world. Indeed, if some of the Victorian pioneers came back, they would find the place virtually unchanged. It is one of the most deprived secondary schools in Strathclyde, where there is only shelter space in the yard on wet days for 40 pupils out of 870, where the outside toilets are almost unusable, where there is no hall for the whole school to gather in, where there is no staff room as such, and where desks and furnishings are used which are more than 20 years out of date. There is only one interval per day because of these conditions. A replacement school was first planned in 1933, then in the 1950s, and again in the 1960s, and it is finally due to start as part of the GEAR project. But will it, or will it be a victim of cuts yet again? Surely not. This school must be rebuilt now. The contents of the Budget will not allay the fears of the people of my constituency. They will only add to them. The electors of Shettleston have placed their confidence and trust in me. It is no part of my duty to my constituents to stand by while their dream is shattered. It is no part of my duty to my constituents to stand by while positive discrimination is made against areas of greatest need. It is no part of my duty   to my constituents to stand by and allow a state of affairs to continue in which Victorian buildings are used to educate children. It is my appeal to the Government that GEAR should be specifically exempted from cuts. This is the very least that can be done to compensate for years of neglect. We recently had a much publicised quotation from St. Francis. One wonders what his view would have been of a Budget which took from the needy to give to the greedy and which made the rich richer and the poor poorer.
