gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
During the last election I sensed a new mood among people I met—a mood different from that which I had found in other elections that I have fought. It was a feeling of community rather than selfish  ness—of country rather than material personal achievement. It was an awareness of history, and a search for greatness in the future. I had a strong feeling that it was a last cry for leadership—a cry for leadership before it was too late, a cry from people wanting to be led, to be helped, and to be allowed to express their abilities in a thriving and competitive industry once more. This feeling was not confined to my constituency; the mood existed throughout the country. Politicians and parties were on trial three months ago in the General Election. The decision was given quite clearly in favour of the Labour Party to take hold of our country and lead it towards a new Britain—the new Britain that the party had spoken of so bravely. They were elected to Government and were given a majority to govern strongly. There were no illusions among the electorate about the problems facing the country. They knew that we were in troubled waters, but little did they know that we should be blown off course so soon. Little did they know that the captain of their choice would prove such an uncertain navigator and such a dangerous helmsman. The mood today has changed, and the high hopes of those who supported the party opposite last April have been dashed. Disillusionment has set in. What an extraordinary tragedy this is for our country, and what a terrible let down for the people that in three short months this politically strong Government should have proved so weak and ineffectual. I do not gloat over the situation. I accept the responsibility which must fall on all hon. Members to recognise that it is the economic survival of our nation that counts. This is more important than party interests. I accept the advice of the leader writer of The Times newspaper yesterday, that Members of Parliament must contribute positively. This is what I hope to do today. I should like to pay tribute to my predecessor in the House, Sir Leslie Thomas. He was greatly admired and liked throughout my constituency by people of all persuasions and activities. He served the constituency with great zeal, thoroughness and attention. He was greatly respected and loved in the House. He had the special understanding of both   sides of the House through a very long association, and he had a very distinguished father who was also a great servant of the House. I mention this to illustrate the special background which Sir Leslie had, which gave him such an acute understanding of the political scene. It was this which enabled him sometimes to take the Chair here and it was this which gave him a very special pride. Earlier this Session, the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave some advice to new hon. Members about maiden speeches. If I remember rightly, he said that he thought that the tradition that maiden speakers should always speak about their constituencies and should at no time be contentious was of relatively recent origin and that he, a great sportsman in these matters, saw no reason why such traditions should be continued. I should be happy to accept his advice on both counts but I hope that he will excuse me if I am selective and tax myself accordingly. I should like to make reference to my constituency. The economic state of our country is the affair of my constituents as much as anyone else and they are very concerned about it. How can I not be contentious if I am to speak to the Motion? However, I hope that you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, will correct me if I fail to show respect to all hon. Members, no matter how controversial I find their views. My constituency is a remarkable mixture. We have a cathedral, the latest and newest university, a coal mine, commuters, and many pensioners. We have oysters and apples. We are the largest apple-growing area in Britain. We have a great retail trading centre which serves the whole of East Kent. I spoke earlier about the mood which I had sensed in this country during the last election. I said that it was a cry for help and a plea for leadership. Farmers in my constituency want to be free from the shackles of Treasury price support and to move towards a levy system. They ask me at many meetings to press for such a move, so that they can ""have a go"" at competing with their rivals on the Continent. There is no lack of initiative among these men, no lack of energy, ability or even scientific knowledge. These are the men who will be the spur to the Ministry of Agriculture  to research more and to provide more information so that they can increase productivity. This is the word which the farmers use today; they talk of farm planning, farm management and greater productivity. They speak in practical terms of productivity, looking at the achievements of their competitors in Holland, Italy, France and West Germany. They are confident not only that they can win at home against competition but also that they can gain new markets abroad. One of my constituents with no less than 12 acres under glass—at a capital investment of £20,000 an acre—is already selling flowers to the Italians. He is prepared to sell flowers anywhere else in the world and is seeking opportunities to examine these markets. But such men are caged in a small economy and are forever uncertain whether the Government really want to help them and give them a long-term plan for the future. Canterbury was savagely bombed in the war, but it has been replanned and rebuilt. The great areas which were laid waste have been developed into a great retail trading centre which serves the whole of East Kent, an area comprising about 200,000 people. The shops there are modern, the car parks are huge and the approach to retailing and distribution is second to none anywhere in the world, including America. This is modern distribution, efficient and labour-saving. The retail trade today is a highly competitive one. There is no room for inefficient trading or selling or over-high prices. It is a healthy trade because it is a competitive trade. Why should the Chancellor single out this trade—retailing—to carry the heavy burden of the Selective Employment Tax? In the United States, retailing is the vital end of the process of production. Why can we not consider it so here as well? This is where the competition is hottest. Go to Macy's in New York and G.U.M. in Red Square and compare the value. I know that I would prefer the competitive economy any time, having seen both those places. Perhaps I may make a suggestion to the Chancellor. It is that he should export his S.E.T. to Russia, where it could do a good job in getting rid of labour wastage in department stores; there is over-employment in retail because of the absence of competition. I have talked in my constituency to many old-age pensioners. My area is one to which people come when they retire to sped their days by the sea in Herne Bay and Whitstable. I have met many old couples earning less than £7 a week through their old-age pension, and they have complained to me that life is hard. I was struck also by their mood. Their greatest interest is the future of our country. These old people are conscious of our great past, but they are still looking forward. What are we offering them today? What economic future, security and development are we showing them? Canterbury is also the site of our newest university, with 500 students enrolled so far, another 500 arriving in October, and it is planned that, by 1970, there should be 3,000. This is a modern and exciting university and all the students there to whom I have spoken refuse any longer to look backwards. Instead they want to seek new opportunities for Britain. They want a philosophy which accepts the past and yet looks into the future. They are not content to rest on past glories nor are they ready to see Britain lose and give up just because the future may seem difficult or uncertain. These young people in their first year at university are eager, excited and vigorous and they want to build a new Britain. The Labour Party were right in their election campaign to refer continually to the new Britain which they wanted to build. The tragedy is that we see these promises in ruins because of the ineptitude of their management of our economic affairs. These young students are individuals in search of a philosophy. Idealists they are, of course, but they seek success and they will not forgive failure. The tragedy of the Prime Minister's failure is not only that he has failed the nation and failed the party but, most serious of all, he has failed Parliament. I am a new and junior Member of the House but I am a servant of the House and of democracy. I am a late arrival. I have been in industry for 20 years. Indeed, I started my industrial life on the factory floor, not as a trainee but to earn my living at £7 a week, starting work at twenty minutes to seven o'clock each morning and going on till six o'clock at  night. I regret that the factory in which I worked had not the benefit of trade union supervision and help. I am not a big business man now; indeed I have given up the opportunity in order to come here. But I believe in the greatness of our country's past and the greatness of our people and I still believe in the greatness of our opportunity for our future. Moreover, I believe in our Parliamentary system, modernised and brought up to date as we go along. I value our party system and treasure our two-party pattern. I ventured to come here because I believe that it is in this Chamber that the centre of power in this country must reside, and in no other place. The procedures of democracy are vital. I do not want to see our country dominated by any other sector of it. The only power that I will acknowledge is the power of political parties by pursuing their policies on the Floor of the House. I will accept power nowhere else, neither in the trade unions nor in the banks nor, indeed, in the board rooms of big industries. All arguments must be centred here, debated freely and voted on by the freely elected representatives of the people. There is a mood in the country today. It is a mood which has a sense of frustration, I believe, as a result of the Government's continual ineptitude in the handling of our economic affairs. Confidence is ebbing away—slowly to begin with but now, I believe, rapidly. It has ebbed away from the Prime Minister and from all his colleagues. I do not believe that they are any longer entitled to the trust of our people. The banks, the farmers, the manufacturers, the retailers, even the students—none of them is looking to them with trust any longer. The Government have failed them all. I do not want to see this present frustration with the Government and a political party turn on Parliament itself. I am sorry that the right hon. Member for Nuneaton (Mr. Cousins) felt that he had to leave the Cabinet, because he had greater power and more opportunity in his great trade union. I am sorry that the First Secretary did not stick to his guns and resign, for he has undermined still further public confidence in our system and in the Government. I have great faith in our country. I believe that we still have the energy, the   initiative, the inventiveness and the right spirit to spread wealth and happiness throughout our society, but we must have the leadership and strong Government. We cannot have disunity. Three months ago more than half the nation thought that leadership was what they would get with a Labour Party having a majority of a hundred in the House. The country was prepared for dynamic action and government from the Labour Party. What did they get? They got a series of exhortations from the First Secretary, a series of deflationary retreats from the Chancellor of the Exchequer who tried to make them seem like advances, and a continual cry from the Prime Minister for the Dunkirk spirit. I thank God for Dunkirk, but it was a deliverance of our nation and certainly not a great advance. I am against too great a reliance on divine providence and too great a reliance on help from the Government. This is what is wrong with the nation today. Our philosophy is wrong. It does not produce the dynamic which we need to survive. We are offering too cosy a reception from cradle to grave. All the time we are offering more and more for less and less. There will be no future for the country, even if the present Government double their majority, if they do not quickly abandon this false philosophy. They underestimate our people and underestimate the abilities of our people. We no longer live in the bad old days and there is no reason, not even now, why we should return to high unemployment, even with the present Government. The Government must appreciate that welfare today must be earned and that a better way of earning it is for people to pay for it directly rather than for them to be taxed in order to pay for it. I am afraid that the time has come when I for one can see no future for the country under this Government. They are wedded to old-fashioned ideas and outmoded thoughts and solutions. The strength of the country is in our individuals. The Government simply do not understand this and their recent actions have done everything possible to sap the strength of the individual. All the measures which they have taken are restrictive. There have been no incentives at all. The hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne, West (Mr. Bob Brown) referred to his trade union, the National Union of General and Municipal Workers. It is a union for which I have high regard. I would tell the First Secretary that I have a very high regard for the trade union movement of this country and for the sense of responsibility of most of the trade union leaders and executives whom I have met. But we live in an age when we must tackle the question of reform of the trade unions. This can no longer remain a cliché to be bandied between the parties, with nothing being done about it. I do not believe that the party opposite will ever get down to the question of rewriting the rules so that the trade unions become a responsible element in our economic society. Many of the trade union leaders with whom I have spoken agree that they are concerned that there is an over-towering power in their hands, and they, like me, believe that that power should reside here and should not slip away into their hands uncontrolled. There is today a mood among our people. It is a murmur that is spreading through all walks of life. It is a cry for leadership. Regretfully, the Prime Minister has failed to give that leadership and his whole Cabinet and Government stand condemned with him. I am afraid that I no longer have any confidence in the party opposite to produce the leadership, philosophy, command, reform and education which must be the foundations of a purposeful society and a new Britain.
