gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with experience and appreciation of the kindness shown in all parts of the House to new Members that I ask the indulgence of the House which, by ancient tradition, is extended to Members when making their maiden speeches. I am aware that, in this contentious  debate, it behoves me, like Agag, to walk warily and to keep off controversial subjects. I welcomed the reference in the Gracious Speech to the continuance of negotiations for the creation of a European Free Trade Area, knowing as I do that if it is possible to bring that Free Trade Area about it will, in the long term, offer one of the surest guarantees of a continual high level of employment and prosperity for this country. In this respect I welcome and thank the trade unions who were concerned in researches upon this subject, for their very constructive and useful contributions. It is said that the course of true love does not run smoothly, but I am sure that everyone will support my right hon. Friend the Paymaster-General in view of the determined and persevering way in which he has carried out his courtship. It is a paradox that arguments which have been used by the protagonists of this scheme to persuade the industries and interests of this country that the scheme is worthy of British consideration and participation, are now being used to exclude this country from the Six and from participation therein. There is reluctance on the part of France to lead the way. She is, by tradition, reluctant to undertake obligations of an international character, but she has a long record of being wedded to the desire for protection. My right hon. Friend the Paymaster-General must have been depressed by the long talking. There has been a lot of talking but very little has been accomplished. Last week at one time there were high hopes that he had persuaded the six nations to get to grips with the subject. After I had written my speech for the sixth time this weekend to keep pace with the changing trend of events, I experienced a little of the frustration that my right hon. Friend must be experiencing at this moment. After this depressing and prolonged talking it is very serious that the nations have not succeeded in marrying the technical topics with the political issue. If we are unable to reach the conclusion of a Free Trade Area by the beginning of next year, as seems likely, it will be all the more difficult. Barriers will have been built up and positions dug in by the various countries, who will be entrenched in trade rivalries in two differing   groups, thus producing division in Europe when it should he unified. There will be increasing trade rivalry and increasing barriers between rival groups. My right hon. Friend has had to remind France and other countries that we cannot stand idle and see ourselves excluded from European trade without taking measures to protect our own industries and the industries of countries that are interested with us. It is possibly a weakness of those who are interested in public affairs to look to the summit but there are times when intimations from higher authorities may do good. In this time, when, I am glad to say, General de Gaulle seems to be going from height to height in authority, I hope that it will be possible to bring pressure upon him not only to have a French Minister at the talks—I regret that no Minister represents France there at this time—but that the French attitude may become more flexible. If that can be brought about it will be a blow for freedom. Europe is at the crossroads and is facing a challenge. It is not only a matter of trade rivalry; if we cannot bring harmony, unity and understanding to E trope through the proposed Free Trade Area we are running the grave risk of creating two mutually exclusive groups which will gradually become more hostile. Having read the prognostications of Karl Marx about the destruction of the non-Communist nations by trade wars, I have some anxiety on the matter. This is the hard business reality to be considered. I hope that France and other countries involved can be persuaded to take the broad view. It is in their interests that they should do it, and it is certainly in our interests that we should join such an organisation. It is not against the interests of our trade union movement or of our farmers who would be able to compete effectively. Europe is to be divided, or is to develop harmoniously and go forward to greater prosperity.
