gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am both delighted and relieved to have this opportunity to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, after some nine months of oral gestation, belatedly to deliver my maiden speech. I hasten to tell the House that this reluctance to speak is in no way based on any reservations about the traditional tolerance of the House to maiden speakers or on any false modesty on my part. It is simply that  I promised myself that I would take my first opportunity to talk on this occasion and on this particular subject. The constituency I have the honour to represent, Falmouth and Camborne, is unusual by West Country standards. First, although it has the traditional industries of agriculture and tourism, it embraces heavy engineering. In the southern half of the constituency we have Falmouth Docks and a world-famous tanker repair facility, well renowned for its standard of craftsmanship, and, above all, for a really significant record of industrial relations which it has had over the last few years. At the northern end of the constituency engineering is fully represented by the Holman Group of companies which overshadow and intermingle with one of Britain's oldest industries, tin mining. The constituency itself was created in 1950, and since then it has had only three Members of Parliament. My predecessor, Dr. John Dunwoody, represented the constituency from 1966 until 1970, and certainly served his constituents well, as well as deservedly earning his spurs as a junior Minister in the previous Administration. However, to many of us in Cornwall the greatest Parliamentarian the Duchy of Cornwall has ever produced was Dr. Dunwoody's predecessor, from 1950 to 1965, Harold Hayman. I say in all sincerity and humility that if ever there was a man who through his example of personal integrity brought home the real value of a back-bench Member of this House, then that man was Harold Hayman. I was delighted and proud to know him well, and I well recall meeting him in the last few months of his life, when he was a very sick man, but though he was a sick man he made a point of coming to London whenever necessary to defend the very small majority which the Labour Government enjoyed in 1964. Although he was sick, although he was weak, although he had given his health and given his soul and was giving his life for the good of Cornish people, not for one moment did he think of giving up or admitting defeat. Harold Hayman told me something which I shall always remember, and I believe that if all hon. Members of this House would remember it as well we   would have better Members of Parliament. This is what he said: Half a Member's work is looking after his constituents' interests and complaints. I can do this work from my home. While I am still Member, and while God gives me strength, so shall I continue to do whatever I can for the people who elected me and the thousands of other people whom I represent. He then added: I have seen the dire poverty of the depression pass, at least in Cornwall. It was easier to wipe it out than it will ever be to expunge its memory from the minds of those who were its witnesses. The dire poverty of the depression may indeed have gone, but the grim totals of unemployment in West Cornwall show that there is still no real security for many of our would-be working families. Yet, due to the callous disregard of successive Chancellors of the Exchequer of both parties, Cornwall's greatest natural industry has been given no encouragement to move into full production, full employment and full prosperity. I refer to the constant refusal of successsive Chancellors of the Exchequer to emulate the Governments of Australia, Canada, South Africa, Eire and the United States in the provision of a tax-free moratorium for the initial years of production of non-ferrous metalliferous mining. Ironically, the idea of a tax-free moratorium is one which would not cost the Treasury even one penny, either new or old, and yet the Treasury makes no move to give it, but without this very real incentive there will be little development, and there will be no mining in Cornwall, and without development there will be no profits, and without profits there will be no tax for the Treasury to scoop in. So what we in Cornwall say to the Treasury on this occasion is ""Join us in nurturing this great natural wealth, help us to coax it to maturity, and then there will be rewards for all; but if you stifle us there will be a drain on the revenue""—and nothing for the vultures of the Treasury. The case I make is no new one. On 21st June, 1961, in Committee on yet another annual Finance Bill, the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the Opposition said that the need for a tax concession had been made all the more urgent because We are facing a world shortage of tin"".  He said it would not be a temporary shortage because Consumption is rising very, very sharply all over the world while production, on the whole, is declining. Later he said: … there is a danger of an absolute shortage, of a real absence of the tin that we may need to ensure full employment and the maintenance of our export trade. Replying, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer said this: It is common sense that we should attempt to get all the mineral wealth we can from beneath the surface of our own country.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st June, 1961; Vol. 642, c. 1515–7.] What is even more serious than that the then Chancellor was unable to apply that common sense to create this incentive and that the Leader of the Opposition did not take the opportunity of one of his 13 Budgets to bring to fulfilment the very policy that in Opposition he had supported is the fact that the situation which was described so eloquently 10 years ago is, if anything, even more serious today. The demand for world tin is increasing, yet bulk supplies are mined in those countries which have become masterpieces of economic and political instability. Although the output of tin from Cornwall is currently running at £2½ million worth every year, this is but 10 per cent. of Britain's national domestic need. This means that every year £20 million worth of sterling is being used against our own balance of trade interests to buy the very commodity that we could substantially produce—certainly to the extent of up to 30 per cent. of our own needs—by utilising our own resources. If the potential is there, as I assure the House it is, why is it necessary to have a tax-free moratorium? The answer is simple. The risk element in nonferrous metalliferous mining is higher than in any other form of investment. It is not enough to tell an investor that he will recover the amount of his investment when the mine starts making a profit. To justify his gamble he must know in the early days that there will be no tax-taking when the mine reaches production and is finding its own peak. The economies of the United States, Canada, South Africa, Australia and the Irish Republic are certainly not being wrecked by the granting in those countries of a very wise and   intelligent tax-free moratorium. Indeed, the revenue in those countries is increasingly swelled year by year from the profits of mining ventures that would not otherwise have come to fruition in the first place. It is estimated that £2,000 million worth of tin has been raised in Cornwall from the beginning of its history. Surveys show that it is still there in substantial quantities. Every ton of tin mined in Cornwall is not only a ton less to be bought from overseas but a ton more in terms of the men who work in the smelters at Kirby and at Capper Pass. It is, therefore, a vital contribution to Britain's future. I therefore ask my right hon. Friend the Chancellor seriously to consider the question of a tax-free moratorium. I will try to make his task just a little easier by doing some of his basic homework for him. He need not worry about the fears of the Treasury about establishing a precedent in connection with mining. The Treasury has already short-sightedly done this by sweeping away investment grants and replacing them by investment allowances in a deluge of destructive policy which overlooks the fact that a mine cannot make profits from which to deduct its development costs without first raising the money and retrieving the money for that development. The Treasury may indeed have put a crock of gold on the larder shelf of mining but it has painted the ladder with slippery paint. Second, my right hon. Friend need not argue that such legislation would be rendered impossible on grounds of definition, because, if his experts do not know the difference between deep-vein deposits of ore and metalliferous minerals and sand, gravel and clay, the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, which is composed of experts and technicians and not of mineowners, would be happy to supply the details. My right hon. Friend need not query the availability of workers. We have the proof that we have the labour force. He need not query the shortage of tin and the world demand. The facts speak for themselves. All my right hon. Friend has to do—this I urge him to do—is to use one of those much-maligned but oft-quoted mere strokes of the pen to give our mineral producers exactly the same terms in this country as those which  are enjoyed by all the other metalliferous countries of the civilised and intelligent world. If it is not the rôle of the Treasury to use its powers to encourage the development of important industries, if it is not the rôle of the Treasury to expand industry to help lower unemployment, if it is not the rôle of the Treasury to stimulate our balance of trade through home production of what would otherwise be costly imports, and if it is not the rôle of the Treasury to bolster the prosperity of the poorer corners of Britain, I apologise for the naïveté of my case. But if the Treasury accepts and answers even one of these responsibilities and challenges, Cornwall looks to its future with hope and to this Chancellor with undying gratitude.
