gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is an honour and privilege for me, Mr. Speaker, to make my maiden speech on the important subject of finance. The Second Reading of any Bill is important, but the Second Reading of the Finance Bill is even more so. I should like to compliment the hon. Member for Sedgefield (Mr. Blair) on his excellent, interesting and controversial maiden speech. I look forward to opposing him in debate during this Parliament. I am sure that, like   me, he was somewhat apprehensive on this memorable occasion, but he coped magnificently. I shall try to do the same. Having graduated in economics from the London School of Economics, I am deeply interested in the subject and in the management of the economy. We are all aware that financial measures enacted here affect the life of every citizen in one way or another. However, we must never forget that our economy depends heavily on the health of the world economy and cannot be dealt with in isolation. I am personally concerned about several key economic factors — the level of unemployment, the level of investment in British industry, Britain's export performance and, of course, the level of Government expenditure. If we have learned anything in the last few years it must be that spending more will not by itself solve Britain's economic problems. The levels of Government expenditure and borrowing were major issues in the recent election campaign. The electorate were offered widely differing financial and economic policies. They made their choice and because of that choice I am privileged to be here representing the people of Erith and Crayford. For the benefit of hon. Members who are not aware, may I say that until 9 June Erith and Crayford, which formed part of the London borough of Bexley, had not been represented by a Conservative Member for the best part of a lifetime. The last Conservative elected for the constituency was in 1935. I am therefore in the unique position of being the first non-Socialist elected to serve Erith and Crayford since the war. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. James Wellbeloved, for his 18 years of service in Parliament. He was undoubtedly a hardworking and capable hon. Member who gave tremendous service to the House and his constituents. Although elected as a Socialist, including in the 1979 election, he repented of his Socialist views in the last two years of his representation of the constituency. I wish to place on record my good wishes to him in his retirement from the active political scene. I shall endeavour to continue the good constituency work of my predecessor and emulate his long term in the House. I do not of course share his political views, not even those he acquired after seeing the light in 1981. I shall be putting my weight and voice behind the private enterprise approach to the financial and economic problems of the nation and my constituency. Erith and Crayford, in common with the majority of parliamentary constituencies, was subject to a considerable boundary change. Two wards in the previous constituency of Erith and Crayford — Barnehurst and Barnehurst, North—were transferred to the neighbouring Bexleyheath constituency and aided my good friend, the hon. Member for Bexleyheath (Mr. Townsend), to be returned with an even larger majority. We were delighted with his result. The present Erith and Crayford constituency is fortunate in having several natural advantages which, together with realistic Government economic policies and the utilisation of those advantages, could transform this part of Greater London into a thriving and prosperous community. I shall do all I can to help to achieve that goal. For investors, Erith and Crayford has many advantages. It has a good location, being close to London, and a large local market. It is situated on the River Thames and has good road and rail links with all parts of London, the home  counties and the southern ports. It has a considerable, varied and talented work force. The people of the area possess a wide variety of skills and the local population comprise young and old, skilled and unskilled, office and factory workers. The people of Erith and Crayford are good, hard-working and able, ready to rise to new challenges and to take on the jobs of tomorrow. There is also in the constituency considerable available space. That includes space for new housing developments, new investment in factories and even the exciting possibility of reclaiming and developing local marshland. The old industries have died but the derelict sites left behind could be utilised by the industries of the future. We are also unfortunate in being part of the London borough of Bexley, which has a reputation for efficient and effective local government. Not for Bexley borough the vast rate increases or the extravagant and wasteful expenditure of some local councils. Not for Bexley the destruction of jobs because of vast rate bills. The people of my area welcome the Government's commitment to abolish the Greater London Council. The only message from my constituents is, ""Please make it sooner. Do not delay. Do it quickly, before any more damage is done to our part of the world."" We cannot afford to delay in implementing this policy. We must do it now. My constituents also welcome the Government's determination to legislate to curb spendthrift councils which increase rates excessively and destroy local communities by killing industries and cutting jobs. The problems of Erith and Crayford parallel those of the nation: factory closures, industrial decline, lack of competitiveness, lack of investment in new ventures, high taxes, lower productivity, and an increasing number of jobless and a high level of Government and public expenditure in the past which has milked the wealth of the nation and channelled it into the non-productive, non-wealth creating sectors. But things are definitely changing and in the last few years we have had an Administration who have been determined to reverse those trends.
