gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, it is a great honour for me to be in this the Mother of Parliaments making my maiden speech. I address you as a Welshman representing an area of the Principality in which I was born and bred. Perhaps I should explain, for the benefit of the people in the Gallery, that I will talk a little bit about my constituency and not about the Bill for a while yet. There are two reasons why I will not address you in the Welsh language Mr. Deputy Speaker. The first is that you will not allow me to do so, and the second is that I do not speak that language. But, like 80 per cent. of the people of Montgomery, I am an Anglicised Welshman and am happy to say that both languages and cultures coexist happily without any rancour. Sometimes that situation can be amusing. I recall being introduced by a lady from Aberystwyth who spoke more Welsh than English. She was extolling my virtues as a candidate. She said ""Mr. Williams is a very good man as I know. I have been out on tit: streets with him twice already."" That can happen where two languages coexist. I am a native of Forden on the Welsh border, just like Owain Glyndwr, save that he was born just on the other side of the border from Montgomeryshire, and, as is well known, set up his own Parliament at Machynlleth. I do not intend to set up my own Parliament until I judge how I am received by this one. Owain Glyndwr was but one famous man to affect the lives of people from my area. One of Montgomery's most famous sons was the reformer Robert Owen. He was born in Newtown of a mother whose name was Williams. He is no relation of mine as far as I am aware. As a child, Robert Owen read ""Robinson Crusoe"" and believed every word of it. That may explain why he became one of the forerunners of modern Socialism. Almost a century later, and born in Newtown, came Colonel Pryce Jones, one of the last Conservatives to represent my area in this House. His distinction was the introduction of the mail order service. It began in Newtown and soon spread throughout this country, America and then the rest of the world. Less distinguished was his manner of dealing with tenants who did not vote for him. That may well account for the 99 years of Liberalism which ensued in Montgomery. The Chartist movement had its early days in Montgomery, and by contrast at Dolobran the Quaker movement had its roots. The history of this gentle movement enriches my area. The Lloyd brothers of Dolobran founded Lloyd's Bank at Welshpool and also started Stewarts and Lloyds, in the Midlands. My constituency is also enriched by the River Severn, gentle wooded hillsides and kind-hearted people. It is known as Powys Paradwys Cymru—the Paradise of Wales. We have in the Clywedog dam near Llanidloes one of the highest dams in Europe. The tallest tree in the United Kingdom resides at Powys Castle, the ancestral home of Clive of India. It is now the residence of the Earl of Powys near Welshpool. In nearby Leighton stands the finest redwood glade in Europe. Our assets are not confined to the beauties of nature. Last year Miss United Kingdom and Miss World finalist Ann Jones came from my home town of Welshpool. The retiring United Kingdom Dairy Princess, Sabrina Jones, came from the picturesque village of Berriew, only three miles away. It can be seen how fortunate we are in my area. We sent Phil Woosnam from Caersws to America as a missionary to teach them association football. From CarnoLaura Ashley sends out fashions designed in Mid-Wales to all parts of the world. Our main industry is the service industry, involving 37 per cent. of the work force, the majority of whom are self-employed small business people. Our second industry is agriculture, including a host of small independent farmers and smallholders. We have some of the finest Friesian herds in the country. From Plinlimmon, where the Severn rises, to the Severn valley there is the whole spectrum of agriculture. There are hill farmers who welcome the latest awards after a hard winter and late spring, and our marginal farmers still await the review on marginal land. In Welshpool we have the biggest one-day sheep sale in Europe. The current lamb negotiations, therefore, are of some importance to us. We welcome the influx of a new industry. While recent cuts in regional aid will have a restraining effect on some individuals, we feel that we are hardworking and courageous enough to make our own way in the world, provided that these cuts are the last to be inflicted on our area, and provided that the Government continue to understand the problem of population sparsity in relation to the rate support grant. I pay tribute to the work of the Development Board for Rural Wales. Though far from perfect, it has done much to improve the quality of life in Mid-Wales and to stem the drift of depopulation. I hope that the board will be allowed to continue—reconstructed perhaps, but inhibited by restraints. For 99 years my constituency has been represented in this House by Members of the Liberal Party. Clement Davies, the one-time leader of the Liberal Party, and a respected, not to say revered, man, represented the area from 1929 to 1962. My predecessor, Emlyn Hooson, took over and he was a great asset to the Liberal Party. He always tried to help individual constituents with their problems. To that extent he was peerless, but he is no longer peerless. On behalf of my constituency—I know that I speak for all shades of opinion—I congratulate him and Lady Hooson on his elevation to the other House. On both sides of the turn of the century, politics in Montgomery was dominated by the Davies family of Llandinam and the Williams Wynn family. Lord Hooson and myself—both lawyers—often   recall the story of the Williams Wynn hunt which had trapped an unfortunate fox in a cul-de-sac. The master, Sir Watkin, turned to his huntsman and said ""There is only one thing that will save him now, and that is a Montgomeryshire jury."" We in Montgomery give most people the benefit of the doubt, and that goes for this particular piece of legislation. I support this Bill with reservations, as it does not interfere with personal freedom and accepts the reality of varying standards of morality. Every parent will welcome the Bill and look forward to its early implementation, especially in the metropolitan area. It will be a relief to be able to take one's children for a walk in London without seeing unmitigated garbage glaring from so many places upon a largely unwilling public. However, I am concerned about the Bill. The definition of ""matter"" in clause 1 (5) as it affects the definition of public display is in danger of making nonsense of the Bill. It states: In this section 'manner' includes anything capable of being displayed, except that it does not include the human body or any part of it Let us read clause 1 (2) and add the above definition after the word ""matter"" referred to therein. It would then read: Subject to subsection (3) below any matter not including the human body or any part of it shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to be publicly displayed if it is… What is the effect of that? Is a live human displayed in a window exempt from the definition of public display? Is a photograph or drawing of a human body exempt? It appears that there is an error in drafting. An explicit demonstration of sexual technique, of necessity involving the human body, appears to be excluded from the definition of public display in the Bill. I hope that other hon. Members will be able to clear up my doubts. I share the concern about clause 2. There is scope for ambiguity in that clause. Provision could have been made to cover costs. Many offended persons are persuaded not to prosecute because of the costs that can be awarded against them. No one wants to encourage vexatious litigation, but the public conscience should not always be protected at the risk of private expense, bearing in mind the huge profits made by the porn kings. Subject to  those comments, I support the Bill in principle.
