gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
A few days ago my hon. Friend the Member for Heywood and Royton (Mr. Leavey) reminded you, Mr. Speaker, that you had told new Members of this House that when they addressed it for the first time they would generally find sitting opposite them people who were not necessarily in agreement with what they were about to say. I find myself this afternoon in a unique position, because I think that it is a fact that most hon. Members opposite are in agreement with what I have to say, whereas a great many on this side of the House are not necessarily in agreement with me. It is always an ordeal to address this House for the first time. It is customary to ask for its indulgence, and I do so. I compare this experience with the first time that I addressed a jury. I think that the difference is that when addressing that jury I was at least guaranteed of the attendance of twelve for the whole time. I know that in making a maiden speech on a subject so highly-controversial and, indeed, as has been said during the debate, as emotional as this one, one runs the risk of offending the views of those people who take the opposite side in the debate. I hope that in stating my views simply and straightforwardly I  shall not be thought to be transgressing any of the ancient traditions of this House or of trying to ridicule or to hold in contempt those who have different views from my own. A great deal has been said during the debate about sentimentality, and it is a point which I noted to make when I first thought about making this speech. What I say is not the result of what I have heard today but because I feel that this is important from the public point of view. Before the House gives a Second Reading to the Bill today, and before we pass it through all its other stages, it would be just as well for the public to be told that the abolition of the death penalty has not been carried out by a lot of sentimental ninnnies who do not know what they are doing. I therefore feel that some attention must be paid to this question. Without examining the merits of the cases for and against capital punishment, I should like to catalogue what I feel to be the general trends of both sides of the argument, so that we can see which side is the more guilty of expressed emotionalism and sentiment. I have had many discussions with my constituents and others interested in this subject and I have heard roughly the following arguments put forward from either side. I know that there is an element in the country which says, ""Hang the lot"" and, ""Hanging is too good for them"". There does appear to be, I regret to say, even a small section of the population which would like to see sheep stealing reintroduced as a capital offence. That is perhaps a small, but none the less vocal section of public opinion. A second argument—and much the more common and much the more responsible—in favour of retention of the death penalty is that hanging deters and that as a measure of public security we must maintain the death penalty. On the other side of the fence, the abolitionists advance a variety of arguments and they have collected a great variety of statistics which, I think, support abolition. It is as well immediately to make a point that most of the statistics on capital punishment in Appendix 6 of the Royal Commission's Report were in fact available from the various societies which for many years have been studying the abolition of capital punishment. That in itself is some   evidence that those societies have at least tried to produce facts and figures and not just emotion to back up their case. The argument for abolition runs in many forms and perhaps I can give four. They are: that capital punishment is not the unique deterrent which it is claimed to be; that there is a possibility of error; that the effect of executions upon the public is distasteful, to say the least; and that it is a denial of the principle of reform which we, as a modern humanitarian State, accept. I ask hon. Members to examine these arguments, but not from the point of view of whether they are right or wrong. I can find only one among them which is an expression of pure emotion and that is the argument put by those people who seek to retain the death penalty. I find myself in complete disagreement with what has been said about the charge of sentimentality which was made by the hon. Member for New Forest (Colonel Crosthwaite-Eyre). If anything, the circumstances are entirely the reverse. Of course, the danger of an emotional approach to capital punishment is that unfortunately it deters people from looking at the statistics in a proper light and in a proper frame of mind. I feel that the argument cannot be brought to a satisfactory conclusion, unless one makes an assumption before looking at the great body of evidence which has been brought together in the Royal Commission's Report. What assumption to make is obviously a matter for one's personal dictates. Some people will say, ""Thou shalt not kill"" in any circumstances. I cannot agree with it, but that is the sort of assumption which some people will make, Others will make the assumption that hanging is too good for some types of person. That is another assumption. On the whole, if one is to make an assumption, one must make an assumption which adequately reflects the social conscience of our community—not a statement of morality, and heaven forbid that it should be a statement of theology. It must be some practical, accepted principle to which all thoughtful and intelligent members of our society would subscribe. Such an assumption—and it is the one I shall make for the purpose of my argument—is that this modern humanitarian society of ours places a  value upon human life. That is all. I do not think that any hon. Member will disagree with that. As Parliament we spend many millions of pounds a year in preserving human life and in trying to make it more fruitful in every way. We cannot say that human life is cheaply held in our society. It is far from held cheaply; indeed, it is valued. As a result, one can draw the conclusion that the justification for taking a life always rests fairly and squarely upon those who seek to take it. There can be no argument about that. We are told, as we have been told this afternoon, that the onus of proof is always upon those who wish to change the law. Certainly that is an attractive proposition. It is neat and it appeals to those of us who regard ourselves as traditionalists. Unfortunately it is fallacious, because the Government may take sanctions against criminals, but must always be prepared to justify those sanctions in the light of modern circumstances. The onus is always on them to show that the punishments are not only fair, but in accordance with what people today accept as ordinary and decent behaviour. If one accepts that the onus or burden of proof lies upon those who seek to retain capital punishment, one can come to a very definite conclusion, by looking at the statistics available, and that conclusion is certainly in support of abolition. It may be that if one makes no assumption and reads the statistics without any fixed framework upon which to place these facts, one will not come to any satisfactory conclusion. I know that some of these points have been made before. I suppose that it is always one of the worst features of making a maiden speech that one sits and listens to everybody saying exactly what one wants to say. That makes one cautious about repeating the whole argument all over again. I do not intend to go through all the arguments we have heard, not only this afternoon but on previous occasions, but there are one or two points which I can usefully make. The statistics are here for everyone to see—and I hope that hon. Members will read them most carefully; they are discussed at great length in the main body of the Report. There are only two quotations to which I want to refer. One is at the end of paragraph 65 where the   Commission has been discussing the basis for the argument afforded by the trend of the homicide rate in a country before and after abolition. These figures are not subject to the criticisms that have been levelled at them, that the crime of murder is differently defined in other countries, because one is dealing with completely consistent countries where there has been no change in the definition of murder as the result of abolition. One can therefore see what the trend has been before and after abolition. The Report says: The general conclusion … is that there is no clear evidence in in any of the figures … examined that the abolition of capital punishment has led to an increase in the homicide rate, or that its reintroduction has led to a fall. Believing that the onus is on those who seek to retain capital punishment, that is surely a very powerful weapon in the armament. In paragraph 68 there is set out the general conclusion concerning the statistics collected. It is: Prima facie the penalty of death is likely to have a stronger effect as a deterrent to normal human beings than any other form of punishment, and there is some evidence (though no convincing statistical evidence) that this is in fact so. But this effect does not operate universally or uniformly, and there are many offenders on whom it is limited and may often be negligible. It is accordingly important to view this question in a just perspective …""— and these are the important words— … and not to base a penal policy in relation to murder on exaggerated estimates of the uniquely deterrent force of the death penalty. That is the final conclusion reached by members of the Royal Commission. If one looks at the problem in that light, that the case must be made out by those who seek to take life, then surely the only tendency one can see from the statistics is that the case is not so made out. I do not think there is one statistic which supports that, but we have been invited too frequently to say that these statistics are of no importance, that they are not conclusive one way or the other. I do not agree. We have been asked to fall back on common sense and to consider the matter from a common-sense point of view. We all know the argument which generally follows that. It is that because a man values his life more than anything, the  threat to take it away will deter him. That is an argument which has echoed down the years, many hundreds of years, in every debate on capital punishment which has taken place in this House. My first reflection on that argument is that it is a logical and attractive argument which it is hard to fault; except that one is attempting to apply a logical argument to a situation which in itself is not logical at all. When we talk about a deterrent we are talking not about a deterrent which is logical, but psychological, and that is a very different thing. Who knows what effect the death penalty has upon a criminal mind, the mind of a potential murderer? I should not like to say, and I do not think that anyone else would. But surely it is up to the abolitionists and not the retentionists to tell us what is the deterrent. We have heard that there would be a danger to public security were the death penalty abolished. Is there any truth in that? When we argue this as a matter of common sense—and that is what the argument boils down to; we are asked to assume it as a matter of common sense—is there any way of proving that the abolition of the death penalty will be potentially dangerous to society because of its effect upon a potential criminal? It may or may not be true, but that simple statement must surely mean that the day is won for the abolitionists, if we believe that the onus of proof should be where I am sure that it ought to be. That is very largely my argument about the question of deterrents. I am sure that those who seek to retain the death penalty do so from the highest possible motives. I do not wish them to think that I accuse them of any other motives, but there is no evidence to that effect. There is no general evidence to that effect. I defy anyone to produce any general evidence. We have all heard the old story of the burglar with the jemmy, and how he told after his capture that he did not use it because he might ""swing"" for it. But that type of evidence is purely anecdotal and has no significance in an argument of this kind. A criminal may be completely unable to inform his captor of what did deter him, and we need much more general evidence than that. Perhaps that evidence could be forthcoming; I do not know. One would have thought, were the death penalty the great   deterrent it is said to be, that other countries after abolishing the death penalty would have found an increase in a certain type of murderer that the professional class of criminals would arm themselves and shoot policemen. But that is not the experience of any country that has abolished the death penalty and I do not think that it would be the experience in this country. I am convinced that we have now reached a stage in our society when capital punishment may be dispensed with quite safely and that there will be no danger to public security as a result. If this House makes up its mind to abolish the death penalty, I think it most important that there should be some responsible statement to the effect that there is no danger to public security. The point has been made by other hon. Gentlemen that if the public do not feel secure, they are not secure. We must make the public feel secure and realise that the case for abolition depends on a rational and concrete argument; that we can now remove the death penalty without fear of any large-scale attacks on old women living alone in the countryside, and that sort of thing. The argument does not end there. I have submitted no positive arguments in favour of abolition. All of us read with a good deal of distress the enormous publicity given, not necessarily to murderers, but to executions. That is a revolting, sordid, and disgraceful practice; but do not let us delude ourselves. The ""niggers in the woodpile"" are not necessarily the newspaper proprietors. After all, their job is to give the public something to read which they want to read. The danger here, the criminal here, is the death penalty itself. We shall not stop that sort of publicity in this country until we abolish the death penalty. I ask those people who seek to retain the death penalty to consider the effect of newspaper publicity on members of the public; that is a matter which I do not think has been raised often in this House. I believe it to have a very deleterious effect indeed on certain sections of the public. The views of Sir Ernest Gowers have been referred to on a number of occasions during the debate. Perhaps nothing was more significant to him than the fact that five people a week, on the average,  apply for the job of public hangman in this country. That seems to me a rather disgraceful reflection upon the morbid interest paid by some sections of society to all the ritual which surrounds a public hanging. I have given a very few arguments and I have perhaps spoken long enough for a maiden speaker. I wish to thank the House for the indulgence which has been shown to me, and I hope that what I have said has not caused any offence to any hon. Members. I have no hesitation in saying that I support the Bill and shall continue to support it during the rest of the stages of its passage through this House.
