gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the fourth time today the House has been asked to show its indulgence to a maiden speaker. I hope that I shall not try the patience of the House too long, but this is a subject of great importance. I have the honour to represent part of the great City of Birmingham, upon whose council I have sat for almost ten years and in whose industry I have had a small part since I left school, for Birmingham is my native city. I hope the House will agree that Birmingham is a progressive city, both in its municipality and in its industrial record. Indeed, I believe that in Birmingham we have played a great part in the economy of the country, not least in maintaining peace in industry and having first-class relations between employers and men. I know that all who represent that great city are most anxious that that should continue. I should, therefore, like to talk for a few moments about one or two of the problems which I see arising out of full employment—problems which I see both as a result of serving on the Birmingham City Council and as a result of working in industry in Birmingham. The first of these is the problem of high prices, which has been mentioned earlier today. I do not want to say much about it at the moment. Hon. Members opposite quite rightly obtain great satisfaction from the results of the last Election. They are entitled to do so. I have listened with interest from time to time to their comments about the sharing of prosperity at this time but I find, particularly in Birmingham, that the prosperity which we enjoy as a nation is rather a precarious prosperity. A great deal of the money which is being earned and a great deal of that prosperity is on a man-and-wife budget, with both man and wife going out to work. I cannot think that this is a very healthy sign. I am not one of those who hope that women will not go out to work or suggest that   a woman's place is in the home, but I cannot think that these trends represent a very healthy sign. An even greater evil is beginning to raise its head in Birmingham, and, I believe, elsewhere—the attraction offered by some industrialists to women to work between 6 o'clock and 10 o'clock in the evening. I cannot think that that is a good thing for family life or a good social trend in the country. I should, therefore, like to say a word, as I have done in the past, about that evil. The earnings and the prosperity which people have at present are to a large measure due to the ever-increasing overtime which is being worked. That, of course, raises a fundamental question about which the House is concerned in the debate—the question of differentials or, as we see it in Birmingham, the question of wages as against earnings, which are two very different things. Although we want to do what we can to maintain peace in industry, we should realise that if there is any adverse trade movement and if overtime ceases, there will be one of the greatest waves of industrial unrest this country has known for many years, because people will be back on the basic rate of engineering wages. This is something of which the House should take note, and with which we ought to concern ourselves. The emphasis since 1945 has, very properly, been on increased production and productivity. The man who can pull a lever more times per hour than other men gets the largest reward in production bonuses. That is very necessary to our balance of payments and export problems, but it brings in its wake a great many more problems about which I am concerned and about which I hope the House will be concerned. On the Birmingham City Council we have the task, as have hon. Members on other local authorities, of running public services. It is becoming more and more difficult to run public services properly if the negotiating authorities concerned with public services are not willing to face the reality of high wages, overtime earnings and production bonuses—problems which have to be faced in Birmingham and in similar towns. It also means the public awakening to the fact that it can no longer expect people to man the buses, or nurses or porters to work in hospitals,  or black-coated workers to work in industry on ordinary basic wages, while others engaged actively on the production front can enjoy such a large share in the prosperity of the country and those I have mentioned do not. As one who has been on the commercial side of industry, and as a member of the Clerical and Administrative Workers' Union, I am concerned about the problem of getting more people into the commercial side of industry. I believe that both sides of industry are neglecting this problem, and that it is a serious matter. The firm for which I have been working for some time had to advertise for a considerable period to get juniors into the firm. We found that juniors with the General Certificate of Education will not take office work because, generally, office workers are not sharing in the prosperity which the rest of the country enjoys. I was pleased to hear an hon. Member opposite, in making a maiden speech, say that we have to recognise crafts and skills and do something about them. In our union we put forward a grading proposal to the Engineering and Allied Employers Federation, but that body would have nothing to do with it. If industry is not prepared to face the problem of paying more to people who do not have a production bonus, in years to come it will have to pay a heavy price for its present blindness. I therefore hope that before it is too late we can have a sensible policy on this matter. I hope we shall realise that the task of administration in engineering and industry is of great importance and that we should try again to attract people into administration. There seems to be a feeling in some quarters that one may become a scientific worker or a technical man first and pick up administration later. I do not subscribe to that view at all; I think it extremely dangerous and I feel justified in referring to it here today. As a member of the Clerical and Administrative Workers' Union, may I be forgiven for hoping that on this occasion the Government will do something about the Gowers Report as it affects office workers. Repeated inquiries have been made and repeated assurances have been given to the T.U.C., but there is nothing about it in the Queen's Speech and we feel that here the Government is letting us down. Thousands of small offices are   slum offices and slum offices are just as bad as slum houses. I am delighted that the Government are to tackle slum houses. I hope they will continue with the logical step of tackling slum factories and slum offices, about which we are very concerned. I wish to say a word or two about the negotiating machinery as it affects local government and engineering. My hon. Friend the Member for Durham, North-West (Mr. Ainsley) referred to this matter in his maiden speech. I believe it is extremely important. We have to streamline negotiating machinery for dealing with industrial disputes. I am not making a point of this from one side of industry; I believe both sides should look into the matter. When a dispute arises from work on the factory floor, by the time it has gone through the whole circle of local conference, district conference, national conference, arbitration, and national disputes tribunal, one wonders what has happened to the original dispute. Frustration causes a festering sore in industry and local government. We in the Birmingham City Council try to face this problem. We wanted to pay a craftsman in the transport industry 2d. an hour more because we realised that the rates there bore no relation to similar work in industry. Our case was turned down, although we claimed that we knew the local circumstances. We were expelled from the Employers' Federation of the Municipal Passenger Transport Association eighteen months afterwards, but Birmingham City Council was so disgusted that it paid the 2d. an hour extra. It is no longer a member of that body. We had the same problem when we wanted to give more money to manual workers. It took a long time, but eventually our case was agreed. All that time there was unrest among public servants, unrest in the transport department, unrest in the public works and salvage departments—all those important departments without which the industry of Birmingham would be of no avail, for they are part and parcel of the great effort we have to put forth in the city. In the Midlands we had a classic example of this kind of thing. A man was driving a bulldozer of more than 40 horsepower and rates had been laid down  by national negotiation for 40 horsepower vehicles. The local authority asked permission to pay 1d. an hour more and the matter was discussed in the council, which agreed. It was discussed at local joint industrial council level, went to national joint industrial council level and then came back to the local scene, but still no one has decided whether the local authority can pay 1d. an hour more for the extra work the man had to do. That sort of thing is not good enough. It is indicative of the frustration and breaking of confidence in joint negotiating machinery which we all deplore. On the engineering side, there is a procedure agreement known as the York memorandum. Many hon. Members will be aware of it. When it was first introduced in 1920 it was called a provision for avoiding disputes, but I cannot believe that a procedure memorandum of 1920 is of very great use today in the world of 1955. I think there must be an overwhelming case for having a look at it. Under the agreement unions are not partners, but applicants. I believe that they should be partners. We should not have unions going forward to try to get grievances and disputes settled. That leads to a very great sense of frustration which, I believe, is one of the main causes of disputes in the engineering sphere. We have to get confidence in joint negotiation by making it work smoothly and—which is more important —swiftly. I believe that the national disputes tribunal and the arbitration tribunal will not be needed so much in the future as in the past if we recognise local conditions and get more local action. The present trend seems to be to pass the baby on to be dealt with by another body. In future, we shall face these problems in increasing measure as we get atomic power in industry and electronics in commercial offices. They will become more and more important. They will throw up, very acutely, the man-wife problem to which I have referred. We have to do very hard thinking on these problems—on both sides of industry and in this Chamber. We have no room for complacency. I still believe that eternal vigilance is extremely necessary if industrial relations are to be successful. I am quite certain that what we have not to do is to talk about making strikes illegal, or of secret ballots, or anything of the sort. We want some rethinking on these problems in order to try to stop delays, to get local action more than national action and to get confidence so that the man on the factory floor, or working for the city or county council can see what has happened to his grievance and where it has been debated. He must virtually be in on the discussions rather than remote from them, as at present. This is the most important thing that we have to do at this juncture in our industrial life and I hope that the House—the Government as well as the Opposition—will give close attention to it.
