gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing this House for the first time, may I claim, in a conventional but none the less sincere manner, the indulgence of the Committee, and express the hope that hon. Members will grant to me the courtesy which I have already witnessed being accorded so many times in the last few weeks. In accepting the advice which hon. Members have offered me concerning the subject-matter and time of delivery of a maiden speech, one is at a great disadvantage on this occasion in following in the wake of the very high standard which we have experienced recently. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade will excuse me if, on this occasion, I do not follow him in his argument, because I wish to deal with a different 'aspect of the matter, though I should like on a future occasion, to be able to do so, more especially as the right hon. Gentleman spoke in my own constituency a few weeks ago. We were told on Tuesday that the Budget is now not merely a means of determining taxation levels for the next 12 months, but a major economic force that must affect us in the years ahead. Therefore, it is doubly important that its diagnosis should be accurate and that the remedies it proposes should be to our national well-being in the distant future, and not only in the immediate present. That being so, I suggest that the problem which faced the Chancellor before he made his proposals was not merely the balancing of the Budget, or the providing  of a surplus, but how to stimulate the further efforts of our people and increase the national income, thereby maintaining the buoyancy of his own revenue. I agree that in the last few years we have experienced increased productivity in industry, but those responsible believe that it could have been much greater—and can still be much greater—if further and correct stimulants are applied. Therefore, I welcome the proposals concerning the tax on overtime which will help in that direction. At the same time, I do not think that they go far enough, nor, as hon. Members opposite believe, low enough. The second task which the Chancellor should have had in mind was the removal from our system of every remaining ounce of inflationary tendency. I cannot share the view of the hon. Member for Gloucestershire, South (Mr. Crosland), who thinks that we should take a risk and ignore any inflationary tendency. I believe that a small inflationary tendency now would be much more serious than would have been a large inflationary tendency two years ago, when we had a sellers' market. Therefore, I believe that we should continue our policy of disinflation. In these circumstances, I propose to direct my few remarks to the question of whether we are certain that we are achieving the disinflation needed, and whether we are doing it in the right manner. We are told in the Economic Survey that we are to set aside from our national income in the coming year a sum of £2,435 million for investment. I have no quarrel with the size of that sum, but it is vital that every penny of it should be covered by savings of one kind or another. The question is, are we certain to achieve that saving, and will the balance of that saving show the correct disposition? We must fully equate our savings to our investments. In the first place, our saving will be done for us in the form of the Budget surplus, together with saving by local authorities, and will account for one-quarter of the total saving necessary. Secondly, £900 million will be provided for us in the form of depreciation allowances. Although depreciation allowances are quite inadequate for the industrial purposes for which they are designed, they are a gilt-edged essential of our saving system. Those two items—the Budget surplus and depreciation allowances—go   a long way towards providing our savings. But it is in the third group that the importance lies, because we are asked to find £905 million in the coming year from other private savings. Important, surely, because whether or not we achieve that, depends on the efforts and the thrift of our people. That being so, I would have expected to hear about some inducements being given to individuals and industry to save instead of relying on the usual exhortations and a certain amount of wishful thinking. Half of this other private saving is to come in the form of company reserves or undistributed profits—those sums on which so many predatory glances are cast. In view of their importance to the disinflationary and financial policy, I would ask that responsible bodies should refrain from making what can only be termed irresponsible demands on undistributed profits, and that they should not be further decimated by taxation or as additions to wages. Otherwise, the success will be shortlived, and the inflation which will follow will destroy any advantage which the workers may get. We cannot stress too strongly the importance of undistributed profits in our Savings Movement. With regard to the other part of our private saving, the most important contribution is the saving by individuals. Even if it is the tail end of our Savings Movement, I believe that, in this case, it is the tail that wags the dog. These are the savings in the form of building societies, insurance, and, most important of all, the National Savings Movement. I do not think that any Member of this Committee can feel really complacent about the present state of the Savings Movement. We are well aware of the figure, and we were told last year by the Financial Secretary that it was not really so bad. It was only that we were withdrawing savings, and not that we were not putting in new savings. I do not think that anyone can feel that is all right, for surely, it is the tendency to stop saving which should worry us. We are asked in the Economic Survey—and this in rather an uncertain manner—to find an additional £170 million from other private saving in undistributed profits and personal savings. The Economic Survey says:   The figure for other private saving shown in the table is not a forecast, but simply the sum which it is estimated will be required. If we are to achieve this sum, we shall need more in the way of encouragement and, possibly, something in the way of positive fiscal policy from this Committee. If we study the trend of saving over the last few years, we find that it has been away from private saving and towards public saving of one kind or another. We are told in the White Paper on the National Income that the percentage of disposable income of the people saved in the form of private savings was the same in 1949 as in 1938-4.8 per cent. I suggest that is a most unrealistic comparison because, in 1938, we were not in an inflationary condition, and saving was not expected to be as great as it is today. In this figure of personal saving we find the items of Death Duties and special contributions included. We all know that that proportion has vastly increased over the last 10 years. If we make a truer comparison of personal voluntary saving between the years 1946 and 1949 we find that, whereas in 1946, 50 per cent. of the total saving of this country was saved voluntarily by individuals, in 1949 only 7 per cent. was so saved. In fact there has been a drop of 700 per cent. I should have thought that that would have caused some alarm to the right hon. and learned Gentleman because in 1949, in his Budget statement, the Chancellor speaking of the Savings Movement, said:  I very, much hope that in this financial year we shall realise a substantial net surplus of savings.""—-[OFFICIAL REPORT, 6th April, 1949 Vol. 463, c. 2079.] Instead, of course we had a deficit of £68 million. Therefore, this year, I was interested to see what observation would be made and I find just this: …I look confidently to … the Savings Movement to continue their good work.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 18th April, 1950; Vol. 474, c. 68.] I have no brief from the National Savings Movement—indeed I am not even a member—but I feel that that magnificent movement does need more than tributes from this Committee and from the right hon. and learned Gentleman. It wants some positive incentive to encourage people to save. It wants the tools with which to do the job. If we look at the reasons why people are not saving today we can possibly put forward constructive proposals. First, there is the welfare State. I am a supporter of it, but in the minds of many it does give the impression that saving is no longer necessary. If that is so, we must revise our ideas. Thrift is surely an essential even of a welfare State. Secondly, those who can find a margin to save are not encouraged to save when they know that a 1945 15s. savings certificate is now, despite accrued interest, worth only 13s. 10½d. Thirdly, is it not time we had a further look at the rate of interest? I know there are many problems connected with an increase in the general rate of interest, but surely an increase in the rate of interest on the national savings certificate would be worth while and would make its purchase more attractive. Fourthly, there was a time when we saved for posterity. I do not think many do that now. Although in this Budget we have no proposals for increasing Death Duties, there are in the minds of many hon. Gentlemen opposite, as mentioned by the hon. Member for Stechford (Mr. Jenkins) yesterday, the idea of a capital tax. If that is the policy, we cannot expect people to save at the same time. Any proposal to that effect must be related to the detrimental effect on savings. There is also the vexed question of Post-war Credits. They were never a form of voluntary savings, but I find that those people who suffered as a result of experience of Post-war Credits are disinclined to join savings movements today. We want a more positive and clear policy and declaration of the Government's intentions in this matter. It has been raised already in this Debate. I was disappointed not to hear last night some pronouncement in this respect, particularly with regard to people who have died before drawing their credits. I ask people why they do not save and I usually get the answer ""Give us something to save with."" I feel that the poster ""Someone worth saving for"" might have another title. This brings us to the question of tax reduction, on which other hon. Members have spoken and will speak. Though I agree with the Chancellor that if we are to reduce, or to give away, the Budget surplus we would not get a corresponding increase  in saving, I feel that some small reduction in the surplus, accompanied by a purge of Government expenditure thus realising a reduction in taxation, would increase savings if they were made attractive along the lines I have mentioned and on other lines. I realise the Chancellor is not going back on his taxation policy, but is it not the time now or in the immediate future to make savings alone a little more worth while and to correct this drift away from private to public saving? Although public saving may produce money to balance our investments, surely it is a bad trend for many reasons. It is bad because it means that capital is concentrated into narrow channels of public corporations and the like and very little capital is available to back initiative and enterprise and to take the risks that capital has taken so often in the past. It is bad, too, because thrift is in itself an essential virtue of happy family life. I ask the Government, first, for an assurance that private or personal saving is to be encouraged and that the tendency to direct more and more savings into the public sphere shall be discontinued. Secondly, I should like to hear more of 3 positive policy to make these savings worth while. The alternative must surely be further inflation and a rise in costs at a time when, more than ever in our history, costs should be kept down.
