gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to have this opportunity of making my maiden speech so soon after being returned as the Member for West Stirlingshire. Those hon. Members who knew my predecessor, William Baxter, will remember him as a man rich in many talents, a man of independent mind and a man who no doubt made many contributions in this House. I am pleased to follow in his footsteps not only as representative for West Stirling-shire but as one who lives in the constituency I represent. My home is in Bannockburn, but I hope that that does not associate me with that minority Scottish element on the opposite side of the House who seem to take great delight in blaming the English for all our troubles. We Scots get a bit fed up beating the English, not just at Bannockburn but even occasionally at Hampden Park and Wembley. But in twentieth century politics I maintain that it is important that we get maximum co-operation from all the peoples of the United Kingdom irrespective of their nationality. I also maintain, however, that this maximum co-operation cannot be brought about unless we Scots are given more say in the running of our own affairs. There is a general feeling in Scotland and in my constituency in particular that government has become a bit too bureaucratic, a bit too centralised and remote from ordinary working people. Admittedly something can be done to alleviate this situation by the extension of industrial democracy to give more people more say in the running of their affairs at work. More can also be done in the field of local government. We look to the new community councils to help to bring government closer to the people in Scotland. Nevertheless, there is an undeniable case for the devolution of more power from this Parliament. That is why I am glad to see in the Gracious Speech that  there will be legislation to set up a Scottish legislative assembly. In the past we have seen legislation exclusively affecting the Scottish people going through a Committee called the Scottish Grand Committee. Yet at times this committee was deliberately packed with non-Scottish representatives, whose sole qualification for membership was the possession of a Tory Party ticket. One advantage of the Scottish legislative assembly or parliament, which is what I would prefer to call it, is that there will be an end to that ridiculous farce of democracy. But I do not think that the Scottish people believe that we can solve all our problems in splendid isolation. We in Scotland face many problems which are similar, if not identical, to problems faced by people elsewhere in the United Kingdom. It would be foolish of us to think that we could solve them by setting up a Scottish separatist State. Therefore, I hope that the legislation for the new Scottish assembly or parliament will not entail any reduction in the number of Scottish representatives in this House. I also hope that it will entail no establishment of a House of Lords in Scotland. We do not want that kind of parliament. We saw enough lords here yesterday. We do not need lords in Scotland. I also welcome the proposal for an agency that will provide more economic and industrial decision-making apparatus based in Scotland—the Scottish Development Agency. I look to the agency and the National Enterprise Board operating in Scotland to put an end to one of the disadvantages of previous regional policies in Scotland applied by successive Governments. Far too often public money was handed out to private industrialists without a reciprocal transfer of power to the public. That must stop. Private industrialists in Scotland too often took advantage of public hand-outs in the form of regional employment premiums, advance factories and cheap labour. They set themselves up and then after a short time, when things perhaps went slightly against them, they moved elsewhere, without a thought for the trail of human havoc they left behind. I hope that the National Enterprise Board, operating in Scotland probably through the Scottish Development Agency, will see that public enterprise means public responsibility and that people's livelihoods do not depend on   the mere whim of private profiteers, as has happened in the past. I also welcome other proposals for an increase in public ownership. The public ownership of land required for development will ensure an end to land speculation, which has been a great contributory factor to inflation, not only in Scotland but throughout the United Kingdom. Public enterprise will also be required if we are to put into effect the integrated energy policy referred to in the Gracious Speech. I hope that this form of public enterprise will relate to old fuel industries as well as new fuel industries. In my county, for example, there are coal seams at Airth which have remained unexploited for years. I hope to see the National Coal Board engaging in the exploration as well as the exploitation of this great source of fuel for the nation, with the added benefit of additional employment for miners who otherwise face possible redundancy. I welcome the proposal for a British National Oil Corporation, which will ensure not only a share of the profits for the community but, combined with the public ownership of land required for oil development, the maximum preservation of our environment. I come from a constituency which is very proud of its natural environment, stretching as it does from the bonny banks of Loch Lomond across to the valley of the River Forth. In between we have the Campsie Fells, the Kilsyth Hills and the Fintry Hills. We are very proud of our natural heritage and are very much concerned with protecting it. It is our duty to see that industrial expansion is accompanied not only by a more equitable share of the material fruits of such expansion but by maximum conservation of our natural heritage. We owe it not only to ourselves and our constituents but to future generations.
