gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first occasion on which I have had the opportunity of addressing the House, and, as I come from one of the most rural of constituencies, may I vary the usual formula with which it is customary to open a maiden speech and ask that the House will overlook any kinks in the furrow which I am going to plough? I think it is traditional that, provided that the depth is there and and that one does not plough right across another man's work, one is forgiven a certain amount of raggedness. I want to refer to something which is implicit in every sentence of the Chancellor's speech of Tuesday and has been implied throughout this Debate, though it was not actually mentioned until a short time ago, and that is the need for increased food production from our home land, and the contribution which that land can make to the problems which we are discussing today. We rightly hear a very great deal about what could be done with extra tons of coal, both for home consumption and for export. Perhaps it might be that extra tons of home-   grown food would not be so spectacular, but I believe that that contribution would still be a very real one and that it could still be made. This is not an agricultural debate, and I do not propose to go into any of the technicalities of the matter, but it is a most alarming thing that, at this moment when the balance of the country's trade is in such a precarious position, the amount of food which we produce here at home is actually, if not declining, then hovering. The crop acreages are down, although I know that in some respects that may be due to the weather. Cattle numbers, for the first time, are also down, and I must say—and I think the House will agree with me—that the present need is to reverse those very untoward tendencies. We have to make the whole of our agriculture more intensive. It is not only a question of basic foods—bread, potatoes and meat—but we also require a great variety of products from the fruit and vegetable industries, especially when foreign importations have had to be reduced. We have heard a good deal in the past about ""feather-bedding"" and about ""deck-chair farming,"" but, even where opinion is better informed, there may be still the idea that agriculture has had time to accumulate the necessary machinery and build up its capital re-sources, and that it is possible, through the mechanisation that has taken place, for agriculture, at this precarious time for the country, to spare workers for other industries. It is with these two measures—capital investment in agriculture and the number of workers—that I want particularly to deal. I can testify from close experience to the intense wish of the farming community still further to improve its efficiency. I do not believe that there is any industry in which there is more discussion on technical points and in which the whole question of increased efficiency is given greater study. But there can be efficiency at various levels of production. It has been proved in the past that high farming is no remedy for low prices, and equally it is not the remedy for high costs. At the moment farmers are being forced to go over from a system which is intensive to one which is extensive; they are being forced to drop a department  rather than to take on another. To put it another way, we depend for the volume of our food on a two-storeyed system in agriculture—livestock built upon crops and crops built upon stock. The old ties concerned with the fertility of the land are not so binding as they were. People are going in for a more extensive form of farming, the very reverse of what we want to see. In Norfolk, my own county, which was the cradle of one of the most celebrated of all the mixed-farming systems ever practised in this country, cattle numbers are falling, but there is ample opportunity there for building a great beef industry upon the arable system. I want to mention the matter of mechanisation and steel supplies for agriculture because, although we have been told that there are to be no direct cuts in this respect, it is most essential that our agricultural machinery industry, which has made such great strides, should continue, and that the home farmer should have a fair share of the products of that industry. I am convinced that it is on the lines of still further use of machines that intensification of our agriculture will be made possible. For instance, I am sure that, in regard to potatoes, where production has fallen by half a million acres since 1948, production of that basic foodstuff, which was of such great value to us in the feeding of our people during the war, could be extended. But the extension of the present acreage depends on mechanisation, and the same applies to the sugar beet and other industries. On the livestock side, development in the dairying industry is being held up by the cessation of the extension of electricity into the rural areas. This was a most unfortunate step that was taken last summer, and I believe that for the continuation of the dairying industry and also in order to provide amenities for workers in that industry, it is essential that there should be a resumption of rural electrification. It may be thought that because of all the mechanisation which has gone on in farming, labour could be spared for other industries. Indeed, there has been a very considerable fall during the last year or two in the number of people working on the land. We know that the transfer of labour from less essential to more essential   industries is one of the features of the plan which the Government have announced, but I wonder whether it is realised that when a new industry is developed in the small industrial towns of this country, or when a small engineering firm connected with exports or armaments is expanded, the first drain on labour is from that on the farms. I know from experience, that in the towns round about me, buses go into all the villages and into the most remote parts collecting workers for factories connected with armament and the export industries. I believe that one of the greatest obstacles to the expansion of home agriculture at the present time is the farmers' fear of not getting the work done. Therefore, I hope that every encouragement will be given to housing in the rural areas, and, as I have said, to the extension of electricity supplies, factors vital to this aspect of the matter. The most significant part of the Chancellor's speech on Tuesday was his emphasis on the need for expansion. Cuts, as he said, are no remedy, and the expansion of home food production is a sphere which demands the most urgent and immediate attention from the Government. I urge the Government to come forward immediately with a bold plan of expansion. It is needed in every part of our agricultural system. The extension of livestock farming on the hill and marginal lands, of which we have seen most notable examples, such as that cattle ranching scheme on the Great Glen of Western Scotland, and which, though miles from me, I have watched with great interest and respect, should be encouraged. There is also need to intensify the farming of our own better lands, both on the larger farms and on the smallholdings, and even on the allotments and gardens. In view of our present food situation it is very depressing to see so many of the allotments and gardens which were cultivated during the war going out of cultivation at the present time. I agree that the job lies with the occupiers of the land, but there is need for a lead from the Government, and I hope that before long we shall hear proposals from the Minister of Agriculture which will really meet the needs of the country and of the agricultural industry which desires, as it can do, to make its great  contribution to the matters which this House has had under discussion during the last two days.
