gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am in a rather strange position, as I am the first male new Conservative Member to make a maiden speech. I begin by expressing my gratitude to my hon. Friend the Member for Ludlow (Mr. Cockeram) and to my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House, who represent my neighbouring constituencies, not because, since the boundary reorganisation, they are among the few constituency names that I know, but because they have been extraordinarily kind and helpful in enabling me to settle in to the rather strange ways of this complex institution. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir John Langford-Holt, who had represented Shrewsbury in the House since 1945 and who was one of the longest-serving Members. I am sure that hon. Members and Sir John's former constituents would wish to join me in expressing our best wishes to him for a long and happy retirement. His service, not only in the House but in his constituency, will be long remembered. I also thank the staff of the Palace of Westminster for their help to new Members, because it is a difficult procedure to settle into. They have been most willing to give us advice and help in settling down. It is a privilege and an honour to represent Shrewsbury and Atcham, because it is one of the finest historic county towns in England. Apart from the interesting medieval architecture of the town of Shrewsbury, the surrounding countryside is beautiful. More importantly, the people are extraordinarily friendly. I am a Geordie by birth, and it is often said that the people from my native place are the warmest-hearted people in the country. I still believe that to be true, but, as a Salopian by adoption, I have found, politically, meteorologically and in friendly terms, the people of Shropshire are extremely warm-hearted. They have taken my wife and family to their hearts with the greatest kindness. I thank my campaign workers, and especially my wife who is here today, for the sense of humour with which we were able to campaign in Shrewsbury and Atcham, albeit on serious issues. During the long days of campaigning, a sense of proportion is undoubtedly necessary. It may be rather dangerous for a new Member to point out an omission from the Gracious Speech, but I must tell my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment that 700 years ago this year, in the time of Edward I, Parliament met in the ""parliament barn"" at Acton Burnell in Shrewsbury. I have now spent two weeks in this rather expensive capital city, so perhaps it would be in the best interests of Parliament to return to that barn in Acton Burnell. I suspect that the fact that it has not been mentioned in the Queen's Speech is simply an oversight. The Government unquestionably have a clear mandate for the programme before the House. I welcome especially the proposals on local government reform and the proposals to curb rate increases. I served for nine years as a borough and county councillor, and I had the privilege of leading the 44 Conservative Members on Tyne and Wear metropolitan county council. It may interest the hon. Member for Berwick-upon-Tweed (Mr. Beith), who is not present, to know that when I was leader of the Conservative group on that council we did not control the county council although my party polled 30,000 more votes than any other political party on the council. We did not gripe about that, but we viewed with some sourness   the fact that the party that most loudly espouses proportional representation more often than not voted with the Labour party which had the minority of popular support in that election. Overspenders affect all areas, not just metropolitan areas. The irresponsibility of those who have become high spenders in local government affects constituencies in non-metropolitan areas such as my own. In the county of Shropshire and in the borough of Shrewsbury and Atcham in particular, we are fortunate in having very sensible councillors who have contained their budgets with good sense and foresight, but that is not the case throughout the country. The top 15 overspenders indeed caused the average rate increase this year to rise from 1·3 per cent. to 5·7 per cent. The hard work and sensible management of so many non-metropolitan areas was therefore sacrificed through the irresponsibility of a very few authorities. When we come to discuss rate increases and how to curb them, I urge my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment to pay particular attention to section 137 of the Local Government Act 1972 which allows a 2p rate to be levied for any item that members of the council judge to be in the interests of the area. That has become one of the most abused sections of that Act. Too many authorities have used it to conduct political campaigns which have spoiled the finer traditions of local government. Hon Members may have read in the newspapers yesterday of a proposal by the West Midlands metropolitan county council under that section to send 10 students to Ghana to study rainmaking and fertility dancing. That kind of action has brought local government into disrepute so that it may now be necessary to change the basis of the Act. In the context of local government reform, I welcome the use of the term ""proposals"" rather than ""legislation"" in the Gracious Speech as I am sure that that means that the Government will proceed with caution and consultation so that we get things right this time. Indeed, I have every confidence that my noble Friend the Minister for Local Government will use the vast experience that he acquired as a local councillor before joining the other place to ensure that the changes made are for the benefit of the community. I am particularly concerned about the accountability of precepting bodies, especially industries such as the water industry which have not acquired a good reputation due to their unaccountability to those who must pay the rates or to this House. Having served on a passenger transport authority, I wonder about the openness of some precepting bodies. Reference was made earlier to the north of England development agency. I served for a few years on the north of England development council, which was not widely regarded by members of any political party as a very accountable or, indeed, effective body. I hope that any legislation on local government reform involving further precepting bodies will ensure greater accountability. It might also be considered that bodies receiving Exchequer funding as an element in heir expenditure should be more accountable not only to the relevant Secretary of State but to the House. In 1841 Benjamin Disraeli was returned as the Member of Parliament for Shrewsbury. He wrote: Youth is a blunder; Manhood a struggle; Old Age a regret. One newspaper has commented that if I remain a Member of Parliament for as long as naturally I hope, I shall be  father of the House in the year 2023. Contrary to the last part of my predecessor's comment, that old age is a regret, I am sure that if I am fortunate enough to he in the House for as long as he was I shall have no regrets. I hope that the House, too, and especially my constituents in Shrewsbuy and Atcham, will have no regrets.
