gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome the opportunity this morning to make my maiden speech. I recall my hon. Friend the Member for Greenock and Port  Glasgow (Dr. Godman) saying that he would adopt the approach of hanging on on the coat-tails of other maiden speeches. I thought that he did a splendid job this morning, and if my performance on this occasion can be anywhere near as worthwhile I shall be quite happy. I share one interest with my hon. Friend. He talked about the royal ordnance factories. In Leeds, many of my constituents are employees of the royal ordnance factory of Barnbow and I share my hon. Friend's firm opposition to privatisation, particularly of that factory. I shall follow the conventions by saying a few words of tribute to those who have preceded me as Members of this House. I have a particularly difficult task, in that Leeds, Central is one of those acts of wizardry performed by the boundary commissioners, and I follow five Members of Parliament, some of whom are now back in the House, while one or two have unfortunately departed. Leeds, Central is a new political creation. As I said, it is made up of five constituencies. I shall not bore the House by going through all the names of my predecessors, except to pay tribute in particular to Joe Dean, who is no longer a Member of the House but who worked hard in the community in Leeds and in the House on behalf of the people of Leeds. I am sure that his contribution over the years will be sadly missed. Many people have already told me that they look forward to the time when he is back in the House as a Labour Member of Parliament for Leeds. I intervene in this debate because I have a primary interest in industry. Also, and above all else, I fear for the future of industry in major cities such as Leeds. Having listened to the speech of the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry this morning, I simply do not agree with others this morning who have said that it was the speech of a chairman of the Conservative party and that it was an election speech. What worries me is, not that it was an election speech, but that it was made by a Secretary of State who seems to have little knowledge or interest in our great industrial cities. I therefore take this opportunity to talk about my own city of Leeds and what has happened to it over the past few years. It might be worthwhile if the Secretary of State were to take the opportunity to visit Leeds and look at some of the realities that are not drawn by Saatchi and Saatchi. Since 1979, unemployment in our city has more than doubled. The Secretary of State talked about the need for the Labour party to espouse an attitude of working together. Many of my constituents would be delighted to have the opportunity to work, never mind working together. Every major firm in the city, whether in engineering, clothing or textiles, has suffered significant job loss since 1979. Those industries are the life blood of our city. The Conservative party often talks about the need to create wealth, but in west Yorkshire and Leeds we are seeing a rundown of the very industries that are capable of creating wealth for our people. In an inner city area such as Leeds, Central, unemployment is now as great as one in three, and often one in four. During the election I was told by an old lady who lives in the city centre, ""I now note the people who go to work, whereas in the past I used to make a note of those who did not go to work."" That is how bad unemployment has become in some parts of the inner city. For our young people, the situation is increasingly desperate. We are constantly told that there is a need to create real jobs. For the young people the prospect of real jobs in our northern cities is non-existent. They go from   one training scheme to a youth employment scheme, then to another without the chance of finding real work and real training. In some parts of the inner city three out of every four school leavers will not find real meaningful employment. The only meaningful activity for them is to go each week to collect the dole money. Otherwise they spend their time in idleness and boredom. It is interesting to note that since 1945 all Governments have assumed the responsiblity for the economy and for maintaining full employment—that is, until the election of this Government. This Government have abdicated responsibility for the management of the economy. They told us during the election that they had achieved a major triumph in terms of inflation. They can manage the economy when it comes to inflation, but they cannot manage other aspects of the economy. All other aspects of the economy are not the responsibility of this Government. The Gracious Speech and the Prime Minister's speech opening the debate are a reflection of that ideology and that dogma. What the Government said then, and the path that they have charted for the next five years, show that they will not accept responsibility for managing our industries and economy. In cities such as Leeds we can look forward not merely to more of what we have had in the past few years but to a depth of recession and despair that we have not known since the 1930s. There is no reason to believe that unemployment will fall. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that unemployment will continue to rise, and to rise sharply in the northern industrial cities. I noticed that the Secretary of State spoke of housing, but he did not speak about the way that housebuilding under the Government has declined and how, in particular, public sector house building has declined as a result of this Government's policies and their dislike and distaste for local government. A number of hon. Members have said today that we could make real inroads into unemployment if we were prepared to allow the housing and construction industries to play a real part. I offer not a novel but a practical suggestion. Leeds has a real and growing demand for council houses and a demand for older houses to be modernised, renovated and repaired. At the same time we have thousands of unemployed skilled building trade workers. With a city council willing to assume those responsibilities and take on the task, it does not need much of a flight of fancy or genius to realise that it is possible to bring together the social demand for houses and the needs and skills of the building trade workers. We could satisfy both sides of the equation. Instead of paying skilled building trade workers to remain unemployed we could give them money to exercise their skills and make a contribution to the community. Instead of spending public money to keep people idle we could spend that money on housing, and satisfy the needs of the young and the elderly. This Government have always turned their back on such initiatives. They have always said that they are not prepared to trust local authorities, and are content to leave thousands of building trade workers wasting away and not using the skills in which they have been trained. As a result, the country's housing stock deteriorates and the number of unemployed building trade workers grows. The construction industry, like many others, would benefit from a Government that were prepared to assume their responsibilities to manage the economy. The discredited  doctrines on market economics that I have heard since I arrived here have never provided the strategy for industry and jobs, and never will. If we continue on the same path in the future, areas such as those that I represent will suffer greatly over the next five years. It may be the wrong time to make this plea, with a Government and a Conservative party that are somewhat overtaken by the arrogance of an election victory. However, they need to take the course that I have recommended because there are people in the northern cities who are desperate for a change of course and for recognition of the problems that they face. Unless the Government change policies, the 1980s will go down in history as a time when a generation of young people were callously condemned to a life of idleness and some of our great traditional industries fell into terminal decline. My fear for the next few years under this Government is that that nightmare will become a reality.
