gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to be one of the many maiden speakers to be called in this debate. Many hon. Members will remember with respect and affection my distinguished predecessor, Mr. James Boyden, who served the House, my constituency and his party for almost 20 years. He served the people of Durham for much longer, being, before his election, a county councillor and the director of the extra-mural department of Durham university. In Government Jim Boyden was, in succession, Joint Under-Secretary of State for Education and Science, Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Public Building and Works and Undersecretary of State for Defence for the Army. From 1974 to the end of the last Parliament he served as Chairman of the Expenditure Committee. Jim Boyden was a perfect gentleman. He was a man of immense charm; a kind, generous, hard-working and conscientious Member who dealt with constituency business with great efficiency and the minimum of fuss and self-advertisement. His standard will be difficult to maintain. I am sure that the whole House will join me in wishing Jim Boyden and his wife a long and happy retirement. Bishop Auckland is arguably the most beautiful Labour-held seat in England. It includes Shildon, the pioneer railway town, the new town of Newton Aycliffe, a shining example of Labour's successful industrial development policies, the historic market town of Bishop Auckland and Barnard Castle, the gateway to glorious Teesdale. Upon succeeding Hugh Dalton in 1959 James Boyden, in his maiden speech, also spoke of the beauties of the constituency but referred to the clouds hanging over South-West Durham. Since 3 May the storm clouds of deep depression have descended over the whole of the North-East. Our people recognise the radical   new policies of the Budget as the re-run of a 1930s horror film. Left to market forces, South-West Durham would have been deserted and derelict long ago. It is only by the massive interference with market forces, by the use of the carrot and the stick, that the economy of the North-East has been diversified over recent years. In spite of the valiant efforts of the previous Government, an even stronger regional development policy is needed if the North-East is to attain self-sustaining growth during the next decade. That is why it is so disappointing that so far no reference has been made to the development agency which was mentioned in the Labour Party manifesto. Indeed, little reference has been made to regional development at all. That is not surprising, for, if the Government are sincere in their touching faith in market forces, they must necessarily dilute regional policy, especially in the teeth of mounting pressure from inner city areas, the West Midlands and central London. That dilution began only days after the election, in the reported refusal of the Government to intervene in the threatened redundancies of 560 Monsanto workers in South-West Durham. Perhaps the Government do not recognise the disastrous proportions of those closures. For the small towns of South-West Durham it is equivalent to the closure of half the shipyards on Tyneside and Wear-side. Ten years will not see the recreation of 560 jobs in South-West Durham even if the growth of the economy outstrips the most optimistic forecast. A profitable multinational company is to be allowed to withdraw without any thought of its social responsibility, throwing 560 men on the scrap heap, men who were made redundant from the mines only 10 or 12 years ago. Those men will have little prospect of alternative employment for the rest of their working lives. No one is advocating the permanent retention of ""non-jobs"", but surely, in an area such as this, the Government and a multinational company have a joint responsibility to retain those jobs whilst exploring every option for viability and making determined efforts to attract replacement jobs. The Government make much of creating a climate in which industry can flourish and of encouraging small businesses, as if at the first whisper of tax cuts thousands of embryonic business men will frog-march the unemployed into their factories in an orgy of wealth creation and wealth sharing. Why, then, was South-West Durham not burgeoning with medium and small businesses in the 1950s and 1960s? The North-East has always had fewer small businesses than any other region, and it will take more than the incantation of Tory slogans to change that. Conservative Members will discover that cheap workshop and factory space is needed, that financial, technical and marketing advice must be freely available and that risk capital for very small projects can be a problem. They will find that this infrastructure is best provided in a spirit of partnership with central and local government, the financial institutions and the entrepreneur—a partnership involving more public spending on industrial development, not less. Yet we hear that regional development grants are to be slashed and that the National Enterprise Board is to be emasculated. Labour Members fought hard to secure a regional dimension to the NEB. As a result, only weeks ago, a successful partnership between the NEB and a small business in Bishop Auckland was forged, creating 130 jobs. Now it seems that the NEB's valuable work of restructuring and diversification in the regions is to disappear. Perhaps the Government will clarify their intentions on regional development. I have letters from several small business men in my constituency, expressing fears that regional capital grants to small businesses are to be slashed. If this happens, several projects in the new town of Newton Aycliffe will be axed, with the loss of several hundred jobs. Will the Government also clarify whether they intend to continue the previous Government's level of support to the Development Commission and COSIRA in their excellent work providing nursery factories in areas such as Middle-ton in Teesdale, Cockfield, Evenwood and Barnard Castle? New jobs are urgently needed in these rural areas to reverse the urban drift of the young and vigorous and to save village life. All these projects are   examples of public expenditure encouraging the formation and growth of small businesses in a development region. Conservative Members would have us believe that public spending strangles private development. The truth is that much private development is dependent on, and supported by, public spending. I should finally like to say a word about the Manpower Services Commission's special employment programmes, which have given new heart to hundreds of South-West Durham's school leavers and long-term unemployed. In the youth opportunities programme, the Government are now encouraging the use of the least expensive modules and shortening the average stay. This will inevitably dilute the value of the education and training content and destroy the concept of progression from one module to another. In the special temporary employment programme, the new target of 12,000 to 14,000 places is derisory when there are 200,000 to 300,000 long-term unemployed, many of them under 25 and many in the North-East. An education and training programme for adults, similar to the youth opportunities programme, is urgently required. Let the new Government prove their claim to compassion by investing public money in giving new hope and skills to the long-term unemployed, instead of castigating the allegedly feckless and work-shy. I am proud to be the son of a shipyard worker who himself knew the humiliation and demoralisation of long unemployment during the 1930s. That heritage has propelled me into this House to make my small contribution to ridding South-West Durham of the twin social evils of unemployment and low pay, and to pass on to our youngsters educational and employment opportunities worthy of their great qualities and skills. If sacrifices have to be laid on the altar of the transient god of free enterprise, let the Government look elsewhere—not to the North-East. If the new Government must have their pound of flesh, the knife must not fall on South-West Durham, which has already suffered too much and too long. I am most grateful for your indulgence, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and that of the House.
