gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Having anxiously balanced the comparative disadvantages of immediate total baptism, and the more protracted process of gradual immersion which prudence might dictate, I rise, not without natural misgiving, to address this House for the first time. In doing so, I naturally feel that degree of diffidence which it is proper to feel in the face of the accumulated traditions and experience of this House. I cannot but feel that the reference to housing, both in the Gracious Speech and in the Prime Minister's speech of yesterday, will, as suggested by my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler), come as a disappointment to the country. There have been a good many metaphorical references made, in the course of this Debate, to the General Election. I would like to say that there was undoubtedly a good deal of fishing in the troubled waters of what, in the conditions of wartime, was an inevitable housing shortage. One of the principal catches displayed by hon. Gentlemen opposite as a result of their fishing was a Ministry of Housing, as advertised in their document ""Let Us Face The Future."" But now it appears that this portion of their catch is what many of us proclaimed it to be at the time, in the nature of a red herring, and it is apparently admitted by the Prime Minister that the great task of housing the   people cannot be sustained on such colourful but unsubstantial diet. The prompt jettisoning of the project of a Ministry of Housing will come as no great surprise to those of us who felt obliged, at the time of soliciting the confidence of the electorate, to point out the administrative difficulties and complexities of this superficially attractive project. It comes as no great surprise to us, and indeed may bring us a qualified measure of gratification, to acknowledge this perhaps somewhat tardy but welcome recognition of the fact that, if you think you have too many agencies dealing with one single activity, it is not necessarily a complete and satisfactory solution to add yet a further agency. Though this may be the feeling of us on this side of the House, it may be that the people of this country, or at any rate that substantial proportion of them who may have cast their vote in the hope and expectation of the amelioration of the housing situation which was to follow from an all powerful, all competent Ministry of Housing, may feel a measure of disappointment. The hon. Member for Broxtowe (Mr. Cocks), who has just left the House, referred, in an interpolation, to Sir Robert Peel. I find it necessary to go back 100 years to Sir Robert Peel, to find a comment which I think will most properly suit the attitude of the people of this country to this sudden reversal of policy. I refer to the quotation from the ""Morning Standard,"" as it then was, of nth December, 1845, referring to the apostasy of Sir Robert Peel on the subject of the Corn Laws. The leader writer of the ""Morning Standard,"" shocked and disillusioned by this, wrote these words: The arguments which he has so frequently and eloquently used in defence of this principle have convinced us. How does it come that they have not convinced himself? —a pertinent if somewhat pathetic inquiry. It may be that history will record that the people of this country in due course put the same query to the right hon. Gentleman. I am reluctant to refer to individual Ministries, on whose efforts the success or failure of the great housing project will depend, but I feel obliged to do so by the action of the Government and the speech  of the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister yesterday. At the time of the General Election there was a tendency on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite to deprecate any undue reliance on individual qualities, and I believe there is even a feeling that we on this side of the House were justly punished for stressing too much the virtues and qualities of one man. Now there appears to be a certain change of front. It appears that hon. Gentlemen opposite now embrace the ancient and respectable doctrine of Burke and join with him in denouncing what he calls the cant of, 'not men, but measures.'  They now seem to have come to the conclusion that, after all, it is the horse and not the harness which draws the chariot along. But before the Election it was all a matter of harness. The Debates in the last Parliament showed a disposition on the Socialist side to criticise the harness, that is to say, the general administrative set-up for dealing with housing. But that general administrative set-up is left substantially the same, and it follows, therefore, that their reliance for improvement must be placed on their faith in the change of team, the change of personnel. The hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies) yesterday paid a notable tribute to the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Health, who I am sorry not to see in his place on this day, which is given to a discussion, amongst other matters, of housing. That tribute was perhaps all the more expected when it is remembered how much the votes of the electorate of the party to which the hon. and learned Member belongs contributed to placing the right hon. Gentleman in office. I content myself with expressing a doubt as to whether the people of this country, in their anxious preoccupation with this problem of housing, did in fact give thanks to high heaven or even breathe a perceptible sigh of relief at the substitution of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. A. Bevan) for my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for North Croydon (Mr. Willink). At least, the Prime Minister has now made it clear that responsibility for the direction of housing is placed upon the Minister of Health, and in so far as this means that the Minister of Health is, in this House,   responsible for the local authorities, and that upon the local authorities there rests a statutory responsibility for the housing of the people, that statement is, as one would expect, one of unexceptionable constitutional propriety. But as a matter of policy, as has been pointed out by my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden, it adds very little, because there are still a great many Ministries connected with matters of housing. The right hon. Gentleman the Lord Privy Seal gave an impressive list of these Ministries on 22nd March last in the Debate on the Second Reading of the Consolidated Fund (No. 3) Bill, and he ended that list by saying that ""nobody was left out except our old friend Uncle Tom Cobleigh."" These Ministries are still there, and my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden has asked, in view of the jettisoning of the proclaimed Ministry of Housing, what is now the principle of co ordination which is to work. I understood, as I think other hon. Members understood, that the Lord Privy Seal was to exercise certain functions of co-ordination. There have been certain metaphors with regard to clothing this morning. I understood that the Lord Privy Seal was to be clothed in the imposing panoply of co-ordination. It now appears that perhaps that panoply will resemble the Emperor's clothes in the fairy tale which, the House will recollect, though gorgeous in the admiring eyes of the obsequious courtiers, had in fact no existence at all in reality. As the matter of co-ordination seems to rest at the moment I am tempted to put the old query, ""Quis custodiet ipsos custodies?"" which for this occasion only I will venture to render as Who is to co-ordinate the co-ordinators? To me the position with regard to housing appears to be blurred where it ought to be precise, to be blunt where it ought to be keen, to be hesitant and apologetic where it ought to be bold and purposeful. I feel that the Government have already jettisoned the principle of a Ministry of Housing and the principle of co-ordination which was so much stressed by Socialist Members in the last Parliament. It seems that the retreat from these principles may perhaps be regarded as the opening two chapters in the Book of Exodus. I am bound to say that the Government seem to be placing an undue reliance on strict Scriptural precedence at  the expense of political consistency in publishing these two chapters so immediately following upon the genesis of their Government. I, like every other conscientious citizen, wish right hon. Gentlemen well in their undertakings in regard to housing. The housing of the people is a matter of infinitely more importance than mere Party advantage. But I would venture to remind right hon. Gentlemen that administrative machinery and controls are only part of the solution, and that perhaps not the most important part, of the great housing problems. To emphasise them too much would be to invite the comment of the modern poet: I see the snaffle and the curb all right; But where's the blinking horse? In this case administrative machinery and controls are the snaffle and the curb. The horse is the physical production of houses; and it is to a good number of good houses in good time that we must look. I would like to follow my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden in urging the Government not to overlook the potentialities of the contribution of a vigorous private enterprise to this problem. He pointed out the great contribution made by private enterprise to the housing between the wars. In fact, a total of some 3,029,000 odd houses out of an over-all total of 4,192,000 odd were built by private enterprise in the inter-war period, that is to say between 1919 and 1940. When my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden made this point he was met by interjections of ""But not for letting."" If we may take the period of the last 2½ years of house building in this country, the period starting 1st October, 1937, we find that in that period 163,000 houses were built by private enterprise for letting, which is a proportion of one-third of the total houses built by private enterprise in that time. I would also say a word on the subject of labour for housing. The country should be grateful to the late Government for their enlightened policy in training men for the skilled trades in the building industry; but that of course is not enough. It is necessary to get building labour back from war-time industries, to which they have flocked in considerable numbers, and out of the Forces, and the country will look for more speedy   demobilisation of bulding labour than was forecast in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister yesterday. They will look, I believe, too, for an amendment of the scheme of Class B release which, while undoubtedly good in principle for the building industry, is in a fair way to founder in practice because it is built on the element of compulsion. Men who are entitled to come out of the Forces under the Class B scheme are reluctant to do so and prefer to postpone the long desired return to civil life until their normal demobilisation will give them a chance of what they hope will be a less regimented existence. I wish briefly to mention the other subject to which my light hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden referred, the subject of rural housing. It has, of course, unfortunately been impossible during the war to accompany the welcome advance in agricultural wages with a parallel advance in rural housing and amenities; but there is undoubtedly an awareness in the countryside to-day as never before of the deficiencies of rural housing and amenities. The countryside looks to the Government to do something to ameliorate that position, and I would urge upon them to give a fair share of Government energy and attention to the problems of the countryside. The Cinderella of the countryside has waited a long time to go to the ball, and awaits anxiously the arrival of her Prince Charming in whatever unexpected and unfamiliar guise he may arrive. I would like to urge upon the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Health the recommendations of the Third Report of the Rural Housing sub-Committee of the Central Housing Advisory Committee, and in particular the recommendation of the maximum extension as quickly as possible to the countryside of public services. I know much has been done by the Water Act of any right hon. and learned Friend He Member for North Croydon and also by the Rural Water Supplies and Sewerage Act of the last Parliament, but there is still much to be done in regard to water and drainage in the countryside. Then there is the recommendation for the survey for the long-term programme of rural housing and the inspection of all houses falling into the three categories  other than the category ""Fit for habitation with minor defects only."" There is the recommendation for the erection by local authorities of houses for agricultural labourers at rents not exceeding 7s. 6d. to 8s. a week plus rates. Those figures, of course, were based on the slightly lower rate of 65s. then existing. There is, too, the urgent necessity to which my right hon. Friend has already referred of renewing and amending the Housing (Rural Workers) Act and reviewing the present statutory maximum of grants and of the limit of value of houses eligible for grants to bring them into line with the increase in building costs. Last, but by no means least, there is the recommendation that the small builder in the countryside should be encouraged as soon as possible to resume his beneficent activities, and that is a practical contribution of which I hope the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Health will take notice. It is not my intention to trespass upon the patience of the House by referring to these matters further in detail. But I have taken this early opportunity to refer to them because there is no doubt that hon. Gentlemen opposite have excited in the countryside feelings of the liveliest anticipation; and now they have the opportunity, which I well know is very welcome to them, of satisfying those expectations. I genuinely and sincerely wish them well in their undertakings. I wish them well because I ardently desire to see these improvements in the countryside; and I wish them well also because, if the efforts of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite should result in too wide a gap and too gaping a divergence between the exuberance of promises and the inconvenience of performance, it would be attended with consequences detrimental to the causes of democratic procedure and political morality in general. Theirs is now the time of opportunity and of testing, and I am sure nobody will grudge them either. It is not for me to say what our attitude should be on this side of the House. It has already been denned by my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden. Speaking for myself, I can apply to myself with much greater truth the words of another maiden speaker in this House; I am an insignificant Member of a numerical minority in this House. But because I have been the first maiden   speaker on this side of the House fortunate enough to catch your eye, Mr. Speaker, I would like to suggest that our attitude has already been denned by us by the words which Shakespeare ascribed to Macduff when he rejected Malcolm's counsel of despair when they met on the morrow of defeat. It will be within the recollection of the House that Malcolm suggested: Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there Weep our sad bosoms empty. To which Macduff gave the more robust answer: Let us rather, Hold fast the mortal sword; and, like good men, Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom. It seems to me that, in encompassing that task in this House, a large part will lie in reminding hon. Members opposite of the promises they have given and the expectations to which they have given rise, and helpfully and constructively, but resolutely and unflinchingly, attempting to enforce the performance of the one and the satisfaction of the other.
