gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great diffidence for the first time to address this House. In so doing I hope I can count on the generosity of both sides of the House, for which it is famous throughout the world. I hope the House will not mind my making reference to two short points before I come to the main subject of my speech, which is the question of leasehold reform. First, I would like to support my hon. Friend the Member for Bedwellty (Mr. Finch) in his welcome to the statement in the Gracious Speech that the development areas will be given considerable assistance. A great many people who visit my constituency of Pembrokeshire are under the impression that it is only a holiday resort about to be scheduled as a national park, but we also have an industrial problem there and a development area as well. I am profoundly sorry that some of the reconstruction work in Pembroke Dock has not been pressed forward with the same vigour as has been the case in other areas in South Wales. I hope the new Measures which the Government are bringing forward will be of considerable assistance to the town of Pembroke Dock. I hope, too, that in due course, the President of the Board of Trade will (Jive some consideration to extending that development area so as to include at least Milford Haven, which has 10 times the rate of unemployment in relation to the national average. This is a very serious problem indeed for the people of Milford Haven. Second, I would like to welcome the reference in the Gracious Speech to better conditions for fishing crews. I hope the Government will also give consideration to some more comprehensive Measures soon, because the plight of the fishing industry is very serious, and such Measures would be those from which all fishing towns would benefit. Third, I come to the main subject which I wish to talk about—the question of leaseholds. This is a problem applicable to the whole of Great Britain in general, but particularly applicable to the town of Pembroke Dock. There almost 90 per cent. of the properties are leasehold, and the danger of leases falling in hangs like a sword of Damocles over the lives of the inhabitants of that unfortunate town. I hope the Attorney-General will be able to give us some hope of the immediate introduction of a Measure of leasehold reform. If the report of the Committee considering the question is not ready I hope my right hon. and learned Friend will give consideration to the introduction of a short, non-controversial Bill which will freeze all leases due to fall in at present, because every month's delay is raising new human problems in all leasehold areas. If my right hon. and learned Friend introduced some such Bill, freezing leases without prejudice to either side until a permanent Measure could be introduced, I am quite sure that it would receive support on both sides of the House. This problem is not only a technical legal problem, but also a very real human problem, and I hope it will be approached in that humanitarian spirit for which the Labour movement has campaigned and which it has supported for so long. Like many others, I entered. the Labour Party because it was interested in people as people and set itself to improve the life and lot of the ordinary common people. I hope my right hon. and learned Friend and the Government will not mind being reminded by the newest, and I believe, according to the Press, the youngest of their supporters, that a Measure such as I have mentioned would mean a great deal to the ordinary people of these islands.
