gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a pleasure to begin my maiden speech following the excellent and charming speech of the hon. Lady the Member for Plymouth, Devonport (Dame Joan Vickers). I hope in time to match her constructiveness and concern, but I shall not aspire to match her charm. My constituency in central Scotland cradled the first industrial revolution. It is a constituency which produces many commodities for domestic and international consumption, not the least important being our store of whisky and our brewing potential. Should you wish to relieve yourself of the burdens of the metropolitan pleasures of London, Mr. Speaker, you will be welcomed in the spiritual sense both psychologically and physiologically. We also produce refractory bricks and we have the largest refractory brickworks in Europe and it makes a valuable contribution to the nation's exports. The people in the area cradled the first industrial revolution, as I have said, and, thanks to the excellent policies pursued during the past six years of Labour Government, policies epitomised by the presence in the Chamber of my right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Ross), they are now forging ahead to  take their place in the new technological revolution. The constituency was represented for 31 years by the right hon. Arthur Woodburn. Arthur Woodburn is a big man, both in the physical sense and in the mental sense. I can hope to aspire to his potential only in the mental sense; physiologically I do not match him. I trust that the House will do me the courtesy of measuring a man, as we do in Scotland, from the neck up. Mr. Woodburn did something which I have inadvertently achieved—he intervened in a debate before having made his maiden speech. The hon. Member for Worcestershire, South (Sir G. Nabarro) chided me about this. Mr. Woodburn intervened in the course of questions to the Prime Minister of the day about the Barlow Report, the Report of a Royal Commission on the Distribution of Population, which has been the foundation of regional policy from that day to this. There have been many variations, but the foundation of the original policy goes back to the Report of a Royal Commission published in 1940. I am following Mr. Woodburn's footsteps in many ways by intervening in this debate today. Hon. Members have argued that there is a gulf between the parties about what is meant by the words ""unnecessary intervention"" on the part of the Government. Many of us have posed the question, ""Who knows best, the Government or industry?"". In reality it is a false question, because sometimes industry knows best and sometimes the Government. There are flaws flowing from trying to follow too doctinaire an approach. My right hon. Friend the Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) said that there had been leaks about Government policy. If there are leaks South of the Border there is an absolute deluge North of the Border—and I am not referring to the deluge at the Royal and Ancient Burgh of St. Andrew's; I will not lay the blame for that on the Leader of the House, whom we wish well when he wears his other hat at the weekend. If he takes the Prime Minister to St. Andrew's, by road, rail, or on foot, we hope he will show him the excellent achievements of the Labour Government in Fife, Central Scotland and throughout Scotland as a whole. Too doctrinaire an approach has evil consequences. I welcome the presence on the Treasury Bench of the hon. Member for Ayr (Mr. Younger), who has been responsible in today's Glasgow Herald—and I do not often agree with that noble organ of public rectitude and erudition—for certain leaks of Government policy in relation to Scotland. He said: While the Prime Minister has rightly said that he does not favour 'instant government', it is to be hoped for the sake of existing and potential Scottish companies that decisions are not delayed too long. The present uncertainty gives little confidence to invest. The hon. Member is clearly beginning his apprenticeship in the Scottish Office. He inadvertently dropped one or two hints in that interview. He clearly indicated that while Scotland might have been a depressed or distressed area in the past, it no longer was. He said: This may have been true in the past, but it""— Scotland— is rapidly becoming an area which has a great attractiveness to offer. A revelation indeed! Speaking for the Government, presumably, he went on to say that they were convinced there was a need for changes in the development incentive system because it had not been producing good results"". There is a contradiction in that. If Scotland is now becoming very attractive to new industrialists, will not the Government indicate their better policies or allow the existing policies to continue? This is where there is the division between the parties. This is a doctrinaire approach and it is no better illustrated than by the policy towards industrial development certificates. I welcome the Prime Minister's statement that his policy is for a full Parliament, which presumably means between four and five years. I have always agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who asked why we should look at the crystal ball when we can read the book. Let us look at what the Conservative Party in Government did between 1951 and 1964 about industrial development certificates. Both sides accept that the Government do not have the right to tell industry where it should go, but  they should have the right to insist—and this is particularly true of Scottish Cabinet Ministers—on telling industry where it should not go. This is the device of the stick, a very important device. What happened to this device in the mid-1950s? I quote an important commentator who, referring to i.d.c.s, said: The threat of compulsion gave way to an almost exclusive reliance on persuasion until by mid-1956 the application for an Industrial Development Certificate had become, in almost all cases, a mere formality"". In Scotland we cannot afford that in the mid-1970s. That would be disastrous for the Scottish economy. I turn to the second test for industrial development and structure. There is a mistaken view that the private entrepreneur always knows best. On occasions, the private investor will be most able to appraise an investment situation. I served an apprenticeship in the ship-wards when the industry was exclusively controlled by private entrepreneurs. I read with diligence and interest the Geddes Report. It was an unbiassed statement of policy and investigation of the industry. Paragraph 276, referring to the investment policy carried on by private entrepreneurs in that industry before any Government interference, necessary or unnecessary, says: During the past ten years industry has spent over £60 million on land, buildings and new plant and machinery. That is very interesting on the investment record, but it goes on It appears to us, however, that little if any attempt has been made before investing new capital to estimate the return in terms of increased profit or reduced cost which could be expected therefrom. So much for the point of view often put by the Conservative Party that public expenditure is wasteful and inflationary whereas private sector expenditure is not. When this view is examined against the stringent scrutiny which has been enforced by both parties against public expenditure, the case that is often put up for this view falls to the ground. I do not accept that public expenditure is wasteful or necessarily inflationary, but I am willing to discuss openly the methods of raising finance for public expenditure and whether it exerts inflationary pressures. There is a subtle difference to be made is neglected by hon. Members opposite. I turn to another area of doctrinaire approach. I have been disturbed by the answers recently given in the House by the Minister of Technology. He is undermining the confidence of private industry to go to a Government-sponsored body, the Industrial Reorganisation Corporation. I have made a good deal of investigation into this matter and I have concluded that there has been no pressure by Government to force enterprises to go to I.R.C. But the Minister in answer to a question the other day clearly indicated that he would veto, tacitly or otherwise, companies which sought mergers necessary for the restructuring of British industry. I accept that the merchant banks have a rôle to play and that there are mergers necessary in industry that can be brought about by means independent of Government. If we are to get the industrial structure we need, particularly if we enter the Common Market, some direct Government intervention is necessary. If for doctrinaire reasons the Conservative Party are to bow to the interests of some sections of their supporters in financial terms, this might be disastrous for the British economy. I will turn to my final point which concerns regional employment premium. On this matter we see possible signs of a doctrinaire approach. No Government has the full solution to the problem of regional development, but the idea of a regional employment premium is to balance the attractiveness of the investment grant system so as to bring in capital-intensive industry with a labour-intensive base. I warn the Secretary of State for Scotland and his Ministers that the Scottish economy is delicately balanced. We have, rightly or wrongly, brought in a good many capital-intensive projects. They need an ever-widening market; they need concerns and enterprises of a labour-intensive nature attached to them. If regional employment premium is to be phased out some other labour-intensive device should be substituted. We need new industries in Scotland to take up some of the surplus manpower. I thank the House for its indulgence. I hope to intervene in the future debates, if I catch Mr. Speaker's eye. I promise then to be more coherent and cogent in my remarks.
