gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Members for Hastings (Mr. Warren) and East Stirlingshire (Mr. Dick Douglas) have inadvertently made a difficult task more difficult for me. I am only too well aware that I cannot compete with the knowledge and fluency with which both have spoken, but I hope that I can compete with their brevity. I have the honour to represent Rom-ford. My predecessor, Mr. Ronald Ledger, served here for 15 years, during which time he made a distinctive mark in the House and the constituency. Soon after his election, he made a remarkable maiden speech, which I gather from many  hon. Members is still remembered vividly today. It is far beyond my capacity to hope to make a similar impact. Romford is a constituency of many striking contrasts. In its ancient market place, traders have sold their wares week in and week out since the years 1267. Immediately alongside this market place is the most modern shopping centre in the country, encircled by a ring road opened only during the recent Election campaign. The constituency, which is within the Greater London Council area, contains a tiny village, Havering-atte-Bower, which is completely surrounded by open countryside. Not far away is the Harold Hill Estate, the second largest council housing estate in London, where 30,000 of my constituents are tenants of the Greater London Council. The constituency also contains several smaller G.L.C. estates and other estates belonging to the London Borough of Havering. I hope that hon. Members will bear with me if I speak about the economics of council housing and particularly those in the Greater London region, rather than follow some of the wider aspects of regional policy with which other right hon. and hon. Members have dealt. The question of the sale of council houses has already been discussed by several hon. Members, notably my hon. Friend the Member for Swindon (Mr. David Stoddart) in his maiden speech the other day. I do not want to bore the House by reiterating his points: I simply say that I completely agree with them. But I should like to say something about council house rents. As hon. Members will know, the Minister of Housing has the power, under the Rent (Control of Increases) Act, 1969 to restrict the freedom of local authorities to increase the rents they charge to their tenants. This power will lapse in June, 1971 and it is disturbing that there was no mention in the Gracious Speech of the Government's intention to seek a renewal of this legislation. In case any hon. Member should doubt the need for such a renewal, I should like to give a few facts and figures about the way rents have been forced up in recent years, despite the fact that the Minister's predecessor, Mr. Anthony Greenwood, made extensive use of his power to moderate the increases sought by many local authorities. The average weekly   rent of a council house in Greater London in 1957 was 21s. 2d. a week. By last October, it had increased, according to the official publication Housing Statistics, to 55s. 11d. Since then, the G.L.C. has increased rents by the maximum allowed by the previous Minister—an average of 7s. 6d. a week. This means that council house rents in London have trebled over 13 years. Increases in the rest of England and Wales have been almost as great. Those increases have been much greater than those experienced by tenants of private landlords in recent years. Their rents are now effectively determined by rent officers appointed under the Rent Act, 1968. Council tenants in my constituency feel that far from removing the restrictions introduced by the last Government, there is now an overwhelming case for strengthening them and for ensuring a period of respite for a number of years during which the recent substantial increases can be absorbed. They were alarmed by a speech made by Mr. Desmond Plummer, the leader of the Greater London Council, on 27th February in which he said, according to the Evening News, that he banks on a Tory Government to let the G.L.C. put up council house rents by larger amounts than the Labour Government has permitted. If the Government do not take early steps to prove Mr. Plummer wrong, I feel that they will rapidly lose what support they have previously been able to command from council house tenants. More importantly, they will be guilty of allowing a harsh and unjust new burden to fall on the shoulders of many thousands of people who are least able to bear it. I note that the Gracious Speech contains a pledge that housing subsidies will be refashioned so as to give more help to those in greatest need. That is an aim which, in principle, I am sure, we would all warmly support, but I warn the Government that it is an aim which they should approach with due caution. Any large-scale switch of the distribution of subsidies resulting in a further rapid increase in rents for large numbers of tenants would cause  widespread and justified resentment and would go flatly against the Government's election promises to prevent further rises in the cost of living. Moreover, to single out subsidies for council houses for this treatment without, at the same time, refashioning—a nicely ambiguous word—the larger subsidies given to owner occupiers would constitute a retreat from rather than an advance towards social justice. The subsidy which is received by owner occupiers is, of course, the relief which they obtain from income tax payments or through the option mortgage scheme introduced by the last Government. Those subsidies are largely directed to those in least need. A house buyer who purchases a house for £10,000 receives twice the relief gained by one who buys a £5,000 house although, in all probability, his total income and resources are far larger. If the Government are interested in reducing anomalies in the distribution of public assistance to those in housing need, I suggest that their attention might be more fruitfully turned in this direction. While council house tenants now demand a period of respite from rent increases, this will not give them the permanent security which they desire and to which they have a right. In my view, the Government should take steps to put council tenants on the same footing as tenants of the very best private landlords, because it is not merely the cost of rent increases which hits tenants but the arbitrary and unpredictable way in which councils have been able to impose them. Tenants should have an assurance that the rents they pay will remain unchanged for a fixed period—say, three, five or seven years—as is normal in agreements for private rented property, and there should be no possibility of their being raised before the expiry of that time. This would relieve tenants of the fear that their rents will be raised year after year and it would enable them to plan their personal budgets ahead with some degree of certainty. Moreover, the time has surely come when council tenants should be granted the same degree of security of tenure as is enjoyed by private tenants under the Rent Act. It was always presumed that as local authorities are not in the housing business for the purpose of making private   profit, they would behave responsibly towards their tenants. This reliance has, in the great majority of cases, proved to be justified. In recent years, however, there have been a number of disturbing instances when councils have sought to dispossess their tenants on questionable grounds. I appeal to right hon. and hon. Members on the Government Front Bench to convey to the Minister of Housing and Local Government the suggestion that this protection should be extended to council tenants. There is in some quarters a belief that council tenants are privileged people. Others take the view that they are second-class citizens. In my opinion, both those views are mistaken. Council tenants do, however, suffer from certain disabilities, and they look to the Government to remove them.
