gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House on making my maiden speech, and I would also like to ask its further indulgence should I, in the course of my remarks, expressing beliefs which are sincerely held, transgress a little the rule which I believe rather discourages controversy in a maiden speech. Since the dropping of the atomic bomb, we have all been living, in a greater or less degree, under its shadow. The very circumstances of the dropping of the first atomic bomb were attended by consequences so disastrous that I cannot help feeling that those who were responsible for the decision as to the manner in which it should be dropped may yet have to review the rectitude of their decision. I think I speak in common with many other Members here when I say that the peace for which we have all worked or fought so hard has not brought the promised relief for which we had so devoutly hoped. Hon. Members here participated in a series of ceremonials and celebrations in the vicinity of this House. Many of us went down to our constituencies to VJ parties, and various other functions of that kind, but one could not help detecting a far greater restraint in celebrating the end of the war, than would possibly have been anticipated six months before its actual end. The war ended, and a new peace arrived well under the shadow of the manner of its ending. Shortly after the House met we discussed and ratified the United Nations Charter, and it was to the United Nations Charter that the hopes and aspirations of the bulk of the people of our country, I felt at that time, were directed. The United Nations Charter and its ratification by this House did give to humanity some new hope that an organised effort might be made in the future in order that wars might be prevented. I make no apology for once again reading to this House the Preamble of the Charter of the  United Nations. This Preamble is one which is destined to re-echo through this Chamber many times before many years are out. It says, in the most stirring terms: We, the peoples of the United Nations, determined— to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which, twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from Treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and to promote social progress and better standards of life and in larger freedom, and for these ends have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims. I venture to suggest that there are millions of people all over the world that did pin more than a considerable faith in the directness and in the power and in the nobility contained in the Preamble to the United Nations Charter, which we, in this Chamber, on 23rd August, did in fact, ratify. The Charter laid down the purposes and principles upon which the United Nations organisation was to be founded. It laid down conditions of membership, it gave details of various organisations of the United Nations, the Security Council, the Economic Council, etc.; it made provisions for the collective measures and action to be taken in respect of breaches of the peace and acts of aggression; and it made provision for the establishment of a Military Staff Committee to aid the Security Council. The details of the United Nations organisation or Charter can be examined practically anywhere, but the cardinal fact to note about the sum total is, that for the first time organised force was to be placed at the disposal of the United Nations. The League of Nations which came to such an untimely end, mainly because lip service was paid to its principles as distinct from actions in support of it, suffered from the very great defect that there was no organised force placed at its disposal. But here, for the first time, there is some provision for organised force to be placed at the disposal of the United Nations as a whole. So much so that I feel that, when that Charter was ratified,   some of the fears which had accumulated since the atomic bomb was dropped were, to some small extent, dispelled. In the meantime, there have been statements, which hon. Members have referred to here this afternoon, made by numerous scientists regardless of country, explaining the potentialities of atomic energy and insisting that it must be internationally controlled. One of the most remarkable things about them was that these scientists were unanimous and the dangers of any one nation holding the secrets of atomic power were set forth in most trenchant terms not only by Professor Oliphant, to whom reference has been made this afternoon, but also by Sir Lawrence Bragg, who said: I believe that any nation which contrives to keep atomic secrecy to itself is playing a dangerous game. The world's future lies in sharing knowledge, not in withholding it. It was in this atmosphere, and with the statements of the scientists fresh before us, that President Truman's speech was made on 27th October last. Far be it from me to say anything which can be construed as hostile or critical of anything that the President of the United States may tell us or that his country may do. I have worked too long with them myself on the staff of the Supreme Allied Commander both in the planning, and in the execution, of the operation upon which we were recently engaged to want to do anything of that kind, but I must record my own view that the terms of the announcement by President Truman, particularly in relation to atomic energy, are in direct conflict with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. I would like to detail these a little because it is important that we should see just where this conflict lies. Article 47 of the United Nations Charter provides that: There shall be established a Military Staff Committee to advise and assist the Security Council on all questions relating to the Security Council's military requirements for the maintenance of international peace and security, the employment and command of forces placed at its disposal, the regulation of armaments and possible disarmament. And later: The Military Staff Committee shall be responsible under the Security Council for the strategic direction of any Armed Forces placed at the disposal of the Security Council. I invite the House to consider a military Committee meeting under the auspices of the United Nations in order to discuss  either the limitation of armaments or to discuss possible action against any breach of the peace. The Military Staffs would gather round the table and would presumably go into all matters of war potential and strategy it was necessary to investigate in those circumstances. If President Truman's wishes are carried out in this matter there will be the American representatives in full possession of all the secrets as to the war potential of the atomic bomb, its whereabouts, its availability in terms of administration, and a whole lot of other military factors in relation to it; and the other participants on the Military Staff will be in entire ignorance as to the real war potential at the disposal of the United States in any discussion that actually takes place. It would be like a conference of military experts, one of whom had at his disposal a fleet of tanks and the balance had merely pea-shooters. How could atomic energy be placed at its disposal, with the entire secret remaining in the hands of any one particular nation? The implication from President Truman's speech is not confined to that. Not only in my view does it transgress the whole spirit, if not the letter, of the United Nations Charter, but it also indicates that the United States does not trust other nations. There are many distrusts at the present time and these distrusts will have to be resolved. In regard to America it may be said straightaway that no nation can regard with equanimity any other nation, whose large private armament interests are not altogether bridled, having full and complete possession of atomic power secrets. My hon. Friend the Member for Smethwick (Mr. Gordon-Walker) has given some details as to American proposals for economic expansion, and it is common knowledge amongst those of us who have been with, and have had the privilege and fortune to work with, the Americans to know that the economic drive upon which they are now engaged has been going on for some very considerable time. We know, those of us who were over in France, that American troops were accompanied by a large number of commercial individuals clothed in what was called assimilated rank; these travelled with the advancing American Army and in many cases commercial interests were sufficiently strong, despite the scarcity of transport before   the invasion, to ensure that many commercial agents came over to this country on priority tickets quite near to the day of the invasion itself. We on these benches are not hostile to commercial development, or expansion, but the danger has to be pointed out that commercial expansion carried out with all the full and secret resources of the atomic bomb at its disposal is likely, or shall I say is possible, to produce a tension; so that with the best will in the world, and regarding the United States as our best possible Ally, we can never be completely and finally sure that atomic energy and the atomic bomb will be used entirely for the purposes which have been set out in the President's Twelve Points. One of the other causes of distrust amongst the United Nations at the present time arises from conceptions of democracy which, I think, probably inspired a good deal of the background of the President's speech. American views of democracy differ very considerably from those of Russia and to a less marked degree from our own. I do think, therefore, we can say a few words on democracy because upon our conception of democracy a considerable amount depends. It may be said that America has much political democracy, a little economic democracy and she has much democracy in her everyday social existence, and that she has developed means of public expression which are harnessed to very big business enterprises. So far as Britain is concerned, we may say that we have much political democracy; we have a growing economic democracy, as the measures which are now being pursued by the President of the Board of Trade in connection with his working parties serve to illustrate; and we have a growing democracy in social life; and our means of public expression are in substantially the same kind of hands, at the present time, as in the United States. In Russia, on the other hand, we have a state that has almost complete economic democracy; almost complete democracy in social life; which has a growing, and only a growing, political democracy; and which has up to now a censorship over the means of news getting into and out of her territories. The only point I am trying to make is that, if we are considering democracy, we must consider it as a whole, and we  must say that it is not always applicable within a fancy political context I make that point because implicit in President Truman's statement there was, obviously, some indirect reference to the present state of affairs in Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria. Many of us on this side of the House wonder why so many of those hon. Members on the Opposition Benches who are now extolling the virtues of democracy in these unhappy countries, did not see fit to denounce the Fascist or semi-Fascist régimes existing in those countries before the war. I think that we cannot impose a Western democracy on countries whose economic state and condition will not support it, but that does not mean to say that we should accept any idea of democracy other than our own. We have to consider the attitudes of all other States towards the whole application of democracy, and we should not thereby be drawn into a conflict with Russia over what is, after all, a very broad question. Russia distrusts the big democracies, and, if I may say so, she has had every reason in the past to do so. No country has been more shockingly vilified than Russia in the years preceding the war, and I am afraid it is quite true that Russia still suffers from a hangover of her pre-war treatment. She will suspect America as a capitalist country, and, after all, capitalism has in the past produced wars: she will suspect Britain as a matter of tradition, because Britain has attacked her and stooped to every conceivable trick to attack her in the years before the war. She will continue to resent talking too much democracy to the Balkans so long as we retain our present relationship with Spain and tolerate the state of affairs which exists in Greece. But the fact that we, in this country, are now a social democracy entitles us to talk to Russia in terms, not only comradely, but also, occasionally, critical. I feel that Russia must understand, or must begin to appreciate, that in this country social democracy is a valid form of socialism. I have a quotation here which may illustrate that point of view from a standard more acceptable to herself. In the preface to the English edition of ''Das Kapital,"" written nearly 60 years ago by Friedrich Engels, it is declared: Surely, at such a moment, the voice ought to be heard of a man whose whole theory is the result of a life-long study of the economic history and condition of England,   and whom that study led to the conclusion that, at least in Europe, England is the only country where the inevitable social revolution might be effected entirely by peaceful and legal means. It is very necessary for us to point out to Russia that that revolution has, in fact, already taken place. Russia may remember also that, amongst the American people, there is a love for democracy which has no limitations, and the nation that is capable of such gigantic work as the T.V.A. scheme is not far removed from the ideals and purposes inspiring Russia's own efforts. We are, in the words of Matthew Arnold: between two worlds—one dead, one powerless to be born. We have to decide in this country what part we can play in order to bring a new world into being. The first thing which, I think, we can do is to break from the past traditional foreign policy of our country, and to make that break quite sharp, obvious and clean, and, to that end, to take the appropriate and necessary action in relation to the two countries I have mentioned. The old diplomacy is completely dead. With the coming of the atomic bomb, we could, if we wished, tear up completely Clausewitz's classic ""On War."" It no longer has any validity. The second thing that we can do is to preserve the virility inherent in our democracy by taking a lead and urging full support for the United Nations Organisation, by surrendering some of our own sovereignty to it, by taking the lead in urging the United States to impart all the data in relation to the atomic bomb to the United Nations organisation and to surrender the whole control of it to the machinery set up. Further, we should proclaim to the world the basis of our social democracy as Socialism, because in this country now, we are Socialists, and, though we may derive some of our philosophy from philosophers from other countries—such as Marx and Engels, and other great thinkers from America like Roosevelt, Mumford and Lincoln—we have our own philosophy, which has a validity for our own country—and the basis which I think, is expressed more adequately by a British Socialist—William Morris—who spoke of the two main essentials of life as being fearless rest and peaceful work. He said:  Troublous as life is, it is surely given to each one of us here those times and seasons when, surrounded by simple and beautiful things, we have felt really at rest. When the earth and all its plenteous growth, and the varied token of the life of men, and the very waste of sky and air above us have all seemed to conspire together to make us calm and happy, not slothful, but restful. Still oftener belikes we have had those other times when, at long last, after many a struggle with incongruous hindrances, our whole life's work has lain before us stripped of all complexities and unrealities; and we have felt that nothing, not even ourselves, could hold us back from the work that we were born to do; and that we were men and worthy of life. Such rest and such work I wish for myself, for you and for all mankind. To have the space and time to gain such rest and such work is the end of politics; to learn how best to gain it is the end of education; to divine its innermost meaning is the end of religion.
