gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would ask the indulgence of the House on this occasion. I wish to take the opportunity to pay a tribute to my predecessor, who held the seat of Dudley for over 22 years as Mr. George Wigg, a man who was well known on both sides of the House. Now, as Lord Wigg, I hope that he is enjoying his life in another place, and is finding more time in which to indulge in his hobby. May his horse, or horses, run faster in the future than they have in the past. I would suggest, with some diffidence, that I recently had the experience of finding out from the wonderful people of Dudley and Stourbridge exactly how they feel about the breaking of promises which they have accepted in good faith. I have reason to believe that their voices were very clearly heard by hon. Members on both sides of the House. I regret that in this Finance Bill we again appear to be breaking faith with people who, acting within the law, had policies of insurance under the provisions of the Married Women's Property Act of 1925, only now to find that the benefit for Estate Duty purposes, if any, from   their lawful action is to be taken away from them, but only if in aggregate the total of such policies is more than £25,000. So, apparently, some people are to be more equal than others since 19th March. I confess that the Bill appears to confirm the worst fears of those who had hoped to see the tax system made less complicated. Here we have 111 pages, including 20 Schedules, many of which raise the problem of legislation by reference. At this stage, it would be reasonable to make a plea for the district and senior inspectors of taxes, a body of men for whom I am sure we all have the highest respect. One of their main tasks has been to review cases and to bring pressure to bear on any case where they have suspected evasion. Today they are almost overwhelmed with the additional work of Capital Gains Tax and Corporation Tax with which they are involved, to the advantage, I would say, of those who are evading their dues. Even if appeals for the simplification of the tax law go unheeded, may I express the hope that the Postmaster-General will instruct the Department of Inland Revenue that its mail will go second-class. At least the harrowing assessments and demands may then be delayed for 24 hours or more. We read in Clause 15 and Schedule 8 of the Bill how it is proposed to aggregate the investment income of infant children with that of their parents for Income Tax and Surtax purposes, but this aggregation is not to apply to earned income, or even to unearned income, if the infant is also regularly working or is married. Perhaps it is the intention to discourage full-time education and encourage earlier marriage. Schedule 8 also introduces further complications where parents are not living together or are not married. One can see further problems for the appeal commissioners in trying to resolve the settlement of matrimonial disputes. Clause 29 is just, and only just, the shortest Clause in the Bill, but it merely introduces Schedule 12, a Schedule of 13 pages of amendment to earlier legislation. I would suggest that it would help the understanding of all of us if full details could be given re-enacting the legislation as amended. I am sure that most people will regret that there is nothing in the Bill to encourage people to work harder, earn more and produce more. In fact, the only real encouragement is to gamble, with the State as the stake-holder, to try to win prizes free of all taxes. It is perhaps ironical that this comes in a Bill providing for a special charge which aims at defeating the purpose of those who have saved. I hope that someone at some time will explain the difference between this special charge and the once-for-all special contribution introduced by one of the Chancellor's predecessors. I hope that the result of the Bill will not be to produce too great an element of the law of diminishing returns. It may do so as regards the sale of spirits, but I am afraid that the reaction of many people may well be to work and produce less for the rewards that they now secure. I have one major regret, that there is no review and overhaul of the Corporation Tax provisions relating to close companies. There is a real case for the raising of the level of award and reward allowable to directors. I hope that one day such rewards can have a relationship to overall profitability and to the true capital employed in the business. Perhaps it is not too late to ask for some further thought to be given to this, and to the simplification of the short-fall provisions.
