gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
During the twelve weeks that I have been sitting here absorbing atmosphere, or, as my more outspoken colleagues would describe it, plucking up courage before making my maiden speech, I have marvelled at the patience and fortitude of the more experienced Members when listening to the first speeches of so many new Members. I am acutely aware that this is the normal tolerance of the House towards new Members, and it is therefore my intention to make my contribution as brief and as painless as possible. I am very grateful to the electors of my division for sending me here as their representative, especially in succession  to my experienced and able predecessor, Sir David Llewellyn. As a result, I am especially conscious that I have the honour to represent one of the three divisions of Cardiff, the capital city of Wales. Cardiff is a remarkable and beautiful city. Thanks to the foresight and generosity of the Bute family, the citizens of Cardiff now own the historic Norman castle which runs along one side of the main street and which occupies roughly a quarter of the centre of the city. It is difficult to visualise any other place in the United Kingdom where, merely by crossing the road from one's hotel in the heart of the city, one can enjoy a country stroll in about 500 acres of the most beautiful castle grounds. Although we who live there are all too inclined to take these unique amenities for granted, we are intensely proud of our heritage and are liable to speak about it with emotion. We have even been known to break into song when describing it, or showing visitors around. Hon. Members who have not yet discovered the beauty of Wales and the hospitality of the Welsh people should do so without delay, because they will be sure of a warm Welsh welcome. Despite the fact that he has not included Cardiff in the first list of development districts under the Local Employment Bill, I can assure my right hon. Friend—he is not present, but I am sure that my invitation will be conveyed to him—that he would receive a warm welcome, in the nicest possible way, if he came to Cardiff. Any initial disappointment that was felt in Cardiff, and the area within a radius of twenty miles surrounding it, at the fact that it has been omitted from the list, has to some extent been offset by the knowledge that several areas that were originally embraced in Cardiff's claim for recognition have been included under their own names. Among these are such places as Bargoed, Pontyclun, Tonyrefail, Ystrad Mynach and Blackwood, and we welcome the inclusion of such industrially historic names as the Rhondda and, only slightly further afield, Merthyr Tydfil. Although the inclusion of these well-known names covers an unemployment figure of nearly 3,000 men and women, and their prospects of employment have presumably improved considerably, there are still about 7,500 persons—   3,000 in Cardiff and 4,500 in the surrounding areas—who must be found jobs at the earliest possible opportunity. In arriving at his decision not to include Cardiff in the first list of development districts my right hon. Friend was probably influenced by two important factors; first, that about 1,000 new jobs will be created in Cardiff in the next year or so as a result of new projects in hand or in prospect and, secondly that Richard Thomas and Baldwins' giant new steel works at Llanwern is less than half-on-hour's train journey from Cardiff. We recognise the significant rôle that these great projects will play in the future prosperity of South Wales, but we also welcome the information recently given by my right hon. Friend that the officers of his Department take every opportunity to bring the many advantages that Cardiff has to offer to the attention of suitable industrialists. Bearing in mind the limitations that the Bill imposes on areas of high employment, we interpret this to mean that suitable applicants will have no difficulty in obtaining industrial development certificates if they wish to come to Cardiff. I sincerely hope that it also means that the large engineering concern which has currently expressed its desire to come to Cardiff will receive every encouragement to do so. It appears that Thursday of this week will be quite a day of destiny for the future of Cardiff. Although it is understandable that the keen disappointment which is felt in some areas of relatively high unemployment should be expressed in the Opposition Motion before us, it must be admitted that the one great advantage that the Bill has to offer over all previous legislation dealing with the distribution of industry is its great flexibility. This should enable areas suffering from high unemployment now, or threatened with it in the future, to make urgent representations to the Board of Trade at any time in the light of new information or changing circumstances. It is reasonable to expect that the need for the provisions of the Bill will tend to increase rather than decrease. The amount of capital investment required in industry in order to create each new job has risen, and continues to rise steadily. In the more prosperous areas, full employment is maintained  partly by the growth of service industries, catering for prosperity. By the nature of things it would be pointless to encourage these service industries to go to areas of falling employment. This virtually eliminates the service industries as a cheaper method of providing jobs in areas of high unemployment, and priority must, therefore, be given to the more costly provision of those consumer, manufacturing or capital goods industries which are best suited to the area. The economic reasons that demand the replacement of out-dated methods of production by more modern techniques are becoming more urgent each day, and this should be sufficient reason for welcoming the first list of development districts. The Local Employment Bill will help to overcome the inevitable difficulties and hardships associated with a change from ancient to modern methods of production. The people of South Wales have come a long way since the days of depression, dole queues and development areas. There is a new spirit abroad and we look forward to the day when by reason of the tremendous road improvements now taking place, by the excellent choice of sites and port facilities that we have to offer, by the adequate supplies of coal and steel available locally, and by the inherent adaptability and skill of Welsh workpeople, South Wales will become so prosperous that it will be entirely eliminated from the development districts under the terms of the Local Employment Bill.
