gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House for two reasons, in the first place because I have not addressed hon. Members on a previous occasion, and secondly, because I cannot pretend to have the technical knowledge which other hon. Members have shown during this Debate. I have listened to a number of speeches by new Members and I have been impressed by the courtesy and generosity that have been shown. I must ask for that same indulgence today. I have only one reason for speaking on this subject, and it is that I am a consumer. One advantage, not the only advantage, of becoming a Member of this honourable House is that the number of occasions on which I carry the coals, clean the grates and light the fires is reduced to one day a week; but I have performed that domestic duty sufficiently often to be able to distinguish between decent coal and dirty, poor quality coal and I know of many who are exasperated by the quality of the coal which is supplied, particularly having regard to the price they have to pay for it. The quality and cost of coal affect the domestic consumer and every branch of industry one way or another. It is, therefore, a matter which concerns us all. I do not propose to discuss the past. I have a great deal of sympathy with those who have spoken about the past in the mining industry. It is perfectly true—let us admit it—that the miners in days gone by had a very harsh time. If there had been more concern on the part of owners for the welfare of the miner and more joint consultation and if there had been profit-sharing in days gone by, there might never have been a demand for nationalisation. There were some experiments in co-partnership away back in the last century. I know of one in the middle of the last century in Yorkshire. Unfortunately, however, owners regarded profit-sharing as an alternative to trade unionism and the result was that the belief grew up—I think it most unfortunate—that co-partnership and profit sharing was a threat to the trade union movement. That was one reason why it failed. But, had   development been on those lines, the whole situation in the coal industry might have been altered. It might also have been altered if, in 1924, the Liberal proposals, not only for nationalising the royalities, but for introducing and developing co-partnership in the coal industry, had been carried out. I believe a great deal of bitterness and strife would have been avoided. But the opportunity was missed and the industry was eventually nationalised. I have never believed, and those on the Liberal benches never believed, that the mere transfer of ownership would bring that new spirit into the industry which was hoped for by Socialists nor, of itself, would it provide the increased production of coal that is required. But the problem today is not whether nationalisation was good or bad, but where we go from now and whether the present set-up is satisfactory. In a maiden speech, I am not expected to be more controversial than I can help, and therefore I will put one or two questions. The first one about which Liberals have been very concerned and have spoken on other occasions—not only on the nationalisation of coal—is whether there is a sufficient degree of responsibility to Parliament. Is there not a tendency for democratically-elected bodies to pass over their powers to the Executive and thence to boards, to whom the powers are delegated, whilst gradually losing democratic control? It is not necessary for me to quote from the Statute, but the point I wish to make is illustrated in the remarks of the Minister of State for Economic Affairs, who was then the Minister of Fuel and Power. He said, in the Debate on the Annual Report of the National Coal Board, on 10th November, 1949: In the case of public boards, Parliament has conferred on them by statute, powers and duties for the discharge of which the Minister is not responsible. He quotes other examples and goes on to say: I think we would all agree that power and responsibility must march together. If the Minister has the power, then he is answerable. If he has not got the power, he cannot reasonably be called to account. He mentions the point of view that Parliament should impose upon itself a self-denying ordinance limiting its power and that of the Minister to intervene because this will give the best results for the nation.  The purpose of my question is to ask whether it does bring the best results to the nation. It is true that we can raise points and put forward criticisms. On this the Minister said: I have no doubt that all the constructive criticism and suggestions made by hon. Members will in any case be carefully noted and taken into account by the Board, even if we on our side are not able to reply to everything that is said.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 10th November, 1949; Vol. 469, c. 1415–18.] I am pointing out that that is not adequate, and that we are concerned with the set-up and the gradual loss of democratic control over nationalised bodies. It would not matter so much if the concern were not a powerful over-centralised monopoly, if there were a greater degree of decentralisation, or if—and I do not rule this out as a possibility for the future—there were groups of mines run almost as autonomous bodies with a degree of competition between them, with the right of choice on the part of the consumer to choose between the products of one group and another and between one type of coal or another. If that existed, the loss of democratic control would perhaps not matter quite so much. The danger lies in having this great centralised monopoly without adequate democratic control. Another question is whether we have gone as far as we might in decentralising. I believe we have not. In the Second Reading Debate on the Coal Industry (Nationalisation) Bill, my hon. Friend the Member for Merioneth (Mr. Emrys Roberts) said: The one guarantee of success will be effective and immediate decentralisation of functions by the National Coal Board.… I hope there will be a series of units with a high degree of economy able to make prompt decision … let there be as great a facility as possible for the exercise of initiative by the regional units.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 30th January, 1946; Vol. 418, c. 897–9.] I ask whether that has been done? I fear it has not, and we have not had the decentralisation we hoped for. My next question is this: Can we honestly say we have the efficiency that is required in a great concern such as this? I will not express my own views. Reference has been made to Sir Charles Reid. I will quote, not from the Report, but from an address he gave last summer to the Liberal Summer School: The initiative of the Divisional Boards is constantly stultified by the necessity to consult   London about matters on which they should make their own decisions. It is little short of a tragedy that the best mining engineers in the country, now occupying the position of Divisional Production Directors, should be spending their time in the hopeless task of trying to guide the mining technique of collieries producing in total 30 or 40 million tons of coal per year and attempting to examine the monthly costs of 150 collieries, with no authority to give an order and no personal responsibility for either output or costs.… Why should the shareholders of a great national business be content with a lower standard of management than free enterprise finds necessary? I agree that some profit has been shown, but that is not evidence of efficiency, particularly having regard to the peculiar and probably temporary circumstances of our sale of coal overseas. Fourthly, I ask whether we can honestly say that there has not been wasteful expenditure in administration. My hon. Friend the Member for Merioneth was asking me today why it was that what he called ""inferior English coal"" was sent to consumers in Wales who are close to the great mines of Wales? Why was there that wastage in transport? I am not in a position to answer. Perhaps hon. Members representing English constituencies will kindly explain why what my hon. Friend calls ""inferior English coal"" is sent to Wales. Again, I put it in the form of a question: Are we satisfied that there is not wasteful expenditure on administration? There are so many cases that are quoted. Perhaps I might tell one story which I do not put forward in any way as evidence. I ought to tell it in Yorkshire dialect, being Yorkshire born and bred, but unfortunately my mother, for whom I have a very deep regard and affection, is a South Country woman and, therefore, spoiled my ability to talk with a Yorkshire accent. My story concerns a miner who, unlike the majority of miners, whom we recognise were in favour of nationalisation, was always opposed to it. His pals used to chivvy him by pointing out the colliery manager's car and saying, ""Sithee, lad, see that car? That is bought out o' the profits and it comes out o' thy wages."" The years passed, and recently there were six new cars in the colliery yard. This miner was waiting for his pals to arrive and pointing out to them, ""Sithee, lad, there are six on 'em  there and they come out o' t' profits and out o' thy wages."" There is some point in that, although, as I say, I do not put it forward as evidence. Fifthly, are we satisfied, are hon. Gentlemen satisfied, that joint consultation at the colliery level, at the pithead, is as good as it might be? I ask that because I have spoken to many miners—I do not pretend to be a miner or to have expert knowledge on the subject—and they tell me that the machinery is there but it does not work satisfactorily, except—I am told—in Durham. They say that matters which could and should be decided on the spot are referred to the divisional board and so on and so on, and that the joint consultation on the spot which we should like has not been attained. We Liberals are deeply concerned about this. We want to introduce into private industry various forms of co-partnership and we wish to see something similar in the nationalised industries. I do not wish to use flowery language but we feel the need for a new democratic charter for the miners. We do not feel satisfied that there is real joint consultation at the pit level. I come to my final question. I realise the tremendous work which is done by the trade unions, but I find the question raised whether the trade unions are becoming too closely bound up with what is called ""the new boss,"" alas that it should be called so. I quote one example which my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Carmarthen (Mr. Hopkin Morris) mentioned to me yesterday as having occurred in his constituency. A miner died and the question arose whether it was the result of an accident in the mine. His own doctor certified that it was. When the matter came before the divisional board, their medical board, after looking into the man's history, decided that it was not. That decision might have been right or wrong, but the communication to the family of the man who died came from the trade union member of the divisional board, not in his capacity as a trade unionist, but as a member of the divisional board. It is not surprising that the man's family felt that the situation had changed and that the trade unions were now too closely tied up with what they refer to as ""the new boss."" I ask this question because I feel that this sort   of thing is harmful to the efforts to create that new relationship which we desire in the coal mining industry. I believe these to be some of the causes of the failure of the industry to be as efficient and highly productive as it should be. That is the point—is it satisfactory, are we satisfied? I feel quite honestly and sincerely that it is not satisfactory and that the complaints about dirty coal are just one aspect of a larger problem. Before I conclude, may I be permitted to make a comment on the question of voting? I do not know whether it will arise on this occasion, and if it does not, I hope I shall be forgiven for mentioning it, but it may arise on future occasions. I make this comment very humbly and respectfully because I realise that I am a new Member, and it is, perhaps, not quite fitting for me to talk on matters of high policy. It seems to me that occasions will arise—whether or not tonight I do not know, but at all events from time to time and, perhaps, often—when this little band of Liberal Members will have to consider how to vote. There are all kinds of possible considerations and reasons which might guide us one way or another. After all, we differ from both the other parties—it is not an easy situation—and we cannot alter our views, I certainly do not intend to alter mine, because it is inconvenient. There are all kinds of tactical reasons why we might vote one way or another, but I am absolutely convinced—and my hon. Friends agree—that there must only be one test on every occasion, that is the merits or demerits of the particular issue on which we are asked to vote. Nearly every issue in life is a moral issue. It is not always a choice between black and white but is generally one between grey and grey or between grey and not so grey. On all these occasions I believe that we shall have to decide solely on the particular issue, having regard to our views and our pledges, as to what is the right way to vote, whatever the consequences. The conclusion we have reached on this occasion is that if there is a vote on this issue of fuel and power—I do not know whether there will be one—we must vote against the Government. Whatever the result may be, one thing at all events is true: the coal industry is one of the great basic industries affecting not only the welfare and comfort of all consumers but of  industry as a whole and our whole economic future.
