gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that the Newport (Monmouthshire) Order, 1966 (S.I. 1966, No. 120), dated 4th February, 1966, a copy of which was laid before this House on 18th February, in the last Session of the last Parliament, be annulled. It is unusual, if not unprecedented, for a maiden speaker to attack an Order of the Government which he supports. It is also, I understand, traditional for a maiden speaker to be non-controversial. I cannot expect that my Prayer tonight will move mountains, or that it is likely to excite much interest in the country as a whole, but if my hon. Friend were to go to the area affected—and it is, indeed, only to part of the Order to which I wish to object—and if he were to go particularly to the Christchurch area, he would realise just how much controversy has been aroused there as a result of the Order. I am confident, too, that the Order raises certain fundamental questions about the interpretation of the Local Government Commission Regulations, 1958, and is, therefore, a useful test case for examining these Regulations. Before proceeding, however, to the substance of my argument, I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute to my distinguished predecessor, who served in several high governmental positions, being, in turn, President of the Board of Trade, Chancellor of the Exchequer, Minister of Aviation, Minister of Defence and Secretary of State for Defence. He served the constituency for 21 years, and, indeed, was a Member of this House before I was born. One thing I have always admired was his political courage in resigning from a high governmental position when he disagreed with the policy of the then Government. It is traditional, too, in a maiden speech, to describe the diversity of one's constituency. I am very tempted to do this, to describe the contrast between the farming in my constituency and the Spencer Steel Works, the new communi  cations, the Severn Bridge, the M4, the delightful valleys of the Wye and the Usk, but I shall limit myself to illustrating that diversity by examining in detail the controversy aroused by this Order. To sketch in the background very briefly, the Local Government Commission for Wales, set up in 1959, following the Local Government Act, 1958, published its draft proposals in May 1961. It proposed to transfer from the County of Monmouth to the County Borough of Newport not only the area on the south side of the Christchurch ridge—that area, indeed, which was agreed by the county council, although hotly disputed by the Caerleon Urban District Council—but also the area to the north of the Christchurch ridge, that is, the area including the Christchurch Estate. The Commission argued in paragraph 788 of its Report that the county's offer—that is, the area only to the south of the ridge—would have split the village of Christchurch, although really only the church room and the vicarage would then have been on the wrong side of the boundary, hardly a substantial argument, I think, for not drawing the boundary in that position on the crest of the ridge which most geographers would imagine the most suitable physical place for drawing the boundary. As I hope to show later, the present boundary halfway down the hill leaves very much to be desired. The final Report of the Commission was published in December, 1962, and a public local inquiry confirmed its proposals in April, 1964. The reason for the urgency of this debate is that as a result of the negative procedure a Prayer must be raised against this Order before 6th May. What, then, are the objections of my constituents to the Commission's proposals? First, it is difficult to reconcile the proposals with the Local Government Regulations, 1958, which state quite clearly in Regulation 11: Before proposing the inclusion in a county borough of an area comprising or forming part of a county district … the Commission shall consider, inter alia, … (a) The question whether the area, if already built-up, is not only substantially a continuation of the town area …""   and this is the important thing— but also has closer and more special links with it than those which necessarily arise from mere proximity: … (c) The question whether … there would be a balance of advantage in the change, having regard to the interests of the inhabitants of the county borough and the county district …"" The Commission's Report concludes, in paragraph 785: The land south of the ridge is cut off physically from Caerleon town and in every respect except local government administration can be considered to look towards Newport. It does not attempt to make such a case for the area to the north of the ridge, that is the area in dispute, the area containing the Christchurch Estate. Indeed, as I mentioned earlier, I am confident that the ridge is the best physical boundary, and that at the moment the boundary lying as it is drawn half way down the hill really means that the county borough is encroaching towards the River Usk, and there seems no valid reason now why this should not be continued, why the county borough should not take in that area which is Caerleon Village which lies on the same side of the river as the Christchurch Estate, and which adjoins that estate. The Welsh Office has not attempted to make a case either for the inclusion of the Christchurch Estate, that is, the area to the north of the Ridge Road, in the county borough. In its letter of 15th July, 1965, to Dr. Tranter of the Christchurch and Coldra Residents' Association, the Welsh Office wrote: In arriving at his decision the Secretary of State … had no doubt that the areas were physically part of Newport and concluded that the balance of advantage is in favour of the proposed transfer. Thus, the residents were again given reasons which I maintain were not valid under the terms of the 1958 Regulations. Naturally, many residents of the Christchurch area seek employment and entertainment, and do their shopping in the County Borough of Newport, but, as interpreted in this case, I believe that the Regulations are so loose as to invite large urban units to gobble up those county districts immediately adjoining them, and are not in tune with the times. People are willing to travel very far to their place of work, and thus many  local authority boundaries are becoming increasingly unrealistic. Where is the evidence to show that there are such special ties as mentioned in the Regulations, in this case between Newport, the county borough, and the district of Christchurch? Certainly the inhabitants of the Christchurch Estate do not feel such special ties with Newport. Indeed, they bought their houses there in the expectation that they would be living in a county district, in a rural area though, as I say, relatively close to the County Borough of Newport. If my hon. Friend were to stand, as I did last weekend, in Oldhill Crescent, on the Christchurch Estate, and look towards Newport on the horizon on one side, and then look down to Caerleon, with Caerleon Village, just adjoining the Christchurch Estate, and the town of Caerleon proper on the other side of the River Usk, he would understand why the residents do not feel this identification with Newport as they do with Caerleon, in which urban district they are at present sited. If there are such special ties between Christchurch and Newport, do not they apply equally forcefully to Caerleon, or at least to Caerleon Village, which, with Caerleon proper, the Commission has seen fit to leave within the county area? The second main objection of the residents of the Christchurch Estate is that obviously the decision on Christchurch must have been very closely balanced. In the penultimate paragraph of his Report on the Public Local Inquiry dated 31st July, 1964, Sir Ralph Hone concluded: It seems to me that the decision to be reached must depend to a large extent on the weight which the Minister attaches to the wishes of the inhabitants which, on the evidence, are clearly strongly against incorporation with Newport. Certainly over 90 per cent. of the residents of this estate feel no identification with the borough of Newport in the way that the residents, for example, of the Bettws Neighbourhood Unit feel with the county borough. Over 90 per cent. of the residents were willing to contribute to a fund to defray the cost of legal representation at the public local inquiry. In order to override such strongly-held objections of the local residents, powerful arguments need to he produced, but the only valid reason which has so far been   given appeared in paragraph 819 of the Commission's Report, which said: We are convinced that this area is to a large extent indispensable to the Borough Council in solving their housing difficulties and is in any case closely associated with Newport. Mere close association is not in itself a reason for incorporation into the county borough. The Malpas farm area, of 57 acres, was not, as a result of the inquiry—although originally proposed by the Commission—transferred to the county. Would not these 57 acres in Malpas go a long way towards compensating the county borough for the loss of Christchurch? Are we really to believe that the 80 acres of buildable land in the area is indispensable to a county borough with an acreage approaching 10,000? If, as the county at one stage suggested, the line were to be drawn at the new trunk road, this would effectively cut off the Christchurch Estate from the area which can be built up, and so would give the county borough what it wanted while still giving the residents of the Christchurch area what they want, which is to retain their position in the Caerleon urban district. Sir Ralph Hone concluded his Report in paragraph 96 by saying that it does not appear to me that this""— that is, the 80 buildable acres in Christchurch— represents any 'loss' to the Corporation for which they should be compensated"". Thus, this argument about the housing needs of Newport is very debatable. The residents feel that they are the innocent victims of geographers, playing with coloured pieces on maps, and that although the formal machinery for safeguarding the private citizens' interests appears very impressive on paper, in fact their wishes have not been heeded at any stage. Paragraph 7 of the 1958 Regulations states that the wishes of the inhabitants should, among other things, be heeded, yet in paragraph 29 of its Report the Commission seems to doubt even the possibility of obtaining an impartial view of what the residents really want. It says That any presentation aimed at securing an expression of the wishes of the inhabitants could have been really impartial we find it impossible to accept.  If this is so—if it is quite impossible to obtain an impartial view of what the residents really want—should not the Government give clear guidance to future commissions on how to set about, in an impartial way, finding out what the residents of the area really want? This section of the Commission's Report, in paragraph 30, ends on a very presumptuous note. It says: The wishes of the inhabitants are, we repeat, important. The paramount consideration is their well-being. I mistrust authorities which tell me what is in my interest. In any case, why make the decision now on this question when the whole future of local government is in the balance, not only as a result of the Royal Commission on Local Government, which we hope will report in two years' time, but also as a result of the report commissioned by the Welsh Office on local government in Wales? I understand that is a very comprehensive report, dealing with areas, functions, finance—the lot. If we are to get that report from the Welsh Office very shortly, why take a decision now on these relatively small points concerning changes between county boroughs and counties? Some of us, certainly on this side of the House, hope that the whole pattern of local government, and the relationship between county boroughs and counties will be looked at radically. Is there not a case for a standstill on minor changes of this sort in advance of the conclusions of these various learned bodies which are at present considering the future of local government, not only in Wales but in the country as a whole? The third main objection of my constituents is that the Commission is meant to propose changes: in the interest of effective and convenient local government. It is difficult to see what the decision in this Christchurch issue has to do with effective and convenient local government. What is to be the benefit to the residents of Christchurch? Having been shown their new rate demands by some of the residents, I am sure they are not very much aware of the benefit at the moment. What is to be the benefit to Caerleon Urban District Council, which, as a result of this Order, loses four-fifths of   the rateable value of Christchurch Ward whilst retaining four-fifths of the area of the ward? Caerleon U.D.C., is already considered by some not to be a viable local government unit. On the housing side, what is likely to be the benefit, at least substantially, to the County Borough of Newport? Because the reasons in favour of this change have appeared so slight, in my conversations with the residents of the area I heard the view expressed again and again that they were the innocent victims of a simple land bartering arrangement. It was said that, because the County of Monmouthshire received the new Spencer Steel works at Llanwern, with all the rateable value which comes from that steel works, the county had to make some sacrifice to the county borough which at the time was hoping to have the new steel works sited within its enlarged boundaries. On this point, the allegation that a land bartering arrangement was involved, the local newspaper, the South Wales Argus, wrote on 14th April: If there is even a half truth in this, it shows a completely cynical disregard for the fundamentals of local government re-organisation and for the needs of the people involved. … a direct denial of the ordinary rights of communities to be regarded as important in themselves and not merely as pieces of negotiable property. … Indeed, the Welsh Office may well regard this allegation as important enough to justify some form of inquiry. … the Government must see that they are made fully aware of the reasons for any action, or lack of it. There is a completely new team at the Welsh Office and, if I may say so, a very able team of which my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary is a part. This team is not honour bound to accept the decisions and recommendations of its predecessors. I hope they will consider the issues raised by this Order and raised by the great concern of the residents of Christchurch sufficiently important to warrant some reconsideration of the Commission's recommendations. I should like to pose to my hon. Friend three questions which have not, so far as I can see, and certainly so far as the residents of Christchurch feel, been answered as yet. First, what are the links between Christchurch and the County Borough of Newport which are closer and more special than those which necessarily  arise from mere proximity? Secondly, how could the Minister reconcile the existence of these links with the near-unanimous opposition of the residents of the Christchurch area? Thirdly, is the Minister prepared to state unequivocally that the change is not by way of compensation to the County Borough of Newport for the siting of the steel works outside its boundary, but is in the interests of efficient and convenient local government in the area? It is the man who proposes a change and not the man who defends the status quo who must give reasons for his proposals, the authorities who must justify their proposals to the aggrieved citizens. So far such cogent reasons have not been given, and I hope that tonight, for the benefit of the residents of this area, my constituents, the Minister will give the reasons.
