gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Once more today, and yet once more in the long history of the House of Commons, the Committee will have to bear, although for but a short time, with a maiden speech. I crave the indulgence of the Committee, especially as I speak on a topic which has in the past involved so many misunderstandings, for so easy is it when matters of finance are discussed to misinterpret what might have been said; and a great deal of unhappiness has been caused by wrong interpretations of the remarks of various speakers. I can only attempt now to speak as one of the many millions in this country who seek in their own way to run their own establishments, either as homes or as businesses, to earn an honest living and try to make ends meet. In many respects those who struggle in that way may well be qualified to know best how to balance their particular budgets. They may well consider with some suspicion the person who considers and describes himself as a ""financial expert,"" but who in many respects appears as a person who knows best how to overspend other people's money. The theme of the Chancellor's speech yesterday was, apparently, the pursuit of happiness. No one can complain of a theme of that kind. It is to the credit of everyone in public life that all our responsible people are devoting their efforts to that end. I have read in the newspapers that, in his talk last night on the B.B.C., the Chancellor said that it  would have been far easier for him to have played Father Christmas than the role of Scrooge. If that is the part which he has allotted to himself, I hope he will play the later part of that same character and carry out many of the things which were done by Scrooge after his dream when he had seen the folly of his ways and had an opportunity of putting right some of the things he had previously overlooked. My only fear is that his dream may become our nightmare if the Chancellor discovers some of the things we would prefer him not to see. To many of us there is little doubt that over-all Government expenditure presents a burden far too heavy for us to carry, either collectively or individually. It is a little difficult to test whether or not that burden can be carried merely by saying that the money has in fact been produced from taxation or has been squeezed from the people. I hope I may have the indulgence of the Committee when I say that many of us feel that the party opposite were very fortunate in their financial inheritance when they first came into power in 1945. In 1939 there was a total over-all revenue of some £927 million. When the party opposite came into office, the figure was about three times that amount. Income Tax had been doubled and Purchase Tax introduced; many new taxes had been brought in to provide the revenue to surmount the difficulties which confronted us during the war years. There are many of us who feel that many branches of Government expenditure can properly and easily be pruned without detriment to the country as a whole. There is little point in continuing the present state of affairs, of merely poulticing a sore, as it were, when by some very careful and discreet surgery the whole cause of the trouble could be rapidly removed. By a careful pruning of expenditure many things which we feel are desirable could be brought about by means of a reduction in taxation. I know that on this occasion I must not be controversial, and I hope I may be forgiven if I say that there are many ways in which one could review all the items of Government expenditure, particularly those which have been already quoted to the Committee, in order to assure the country that we have at heart a determination to eliminate any unneces-   sary expenditure. I hope that the Chancellor, in answer to his own conscience, as he said yesterday, will impress upon his colleagues that the Estimates for the ensuing year will not be exceeded, as they have been exceeded in previous years. There are many of us who would like some reassurance that there is a constant review of Government expenditure. I would have been much happier if in the popular edition of the Economic Survey, well illustrated, attractively produced and written as it is, greater emphasis could have been placed upon paragraph 35, on page 10, of the White Paper, where we are told that there is a basic assumption underlying everything that is said in the following pages about the balance of payments, production, investment and consumption""— which is the reliance by this country upon the continuation of American aid for the following two years. It is a little regrettable that that very definite statement does not find a prominent place in the cheaper and more popular version of the Survey. In the light of the pursuit by the Chancellor of the happiness which he desires for us all, a gloomy reflection will be found on page 6 of the popular edition, which says that: For many people, however, the main personal problem of 1950 will still be finding the homes they want. While we welcome the announcement made yesterday of the restoration of the programme for the production of 200,000 new and permanent houses this year, many of us know—from the City of Leeds, for example—that that target will not produce the over-all total of new houses which are required to satisfy the pursuit of happiness by so many of the citizens of that and other of our cities. The ever-rising cost of living, which makes for so many the problem of personal saving so difficult, is difficult to reconcile with the matters to which I have referred, whether or not there is a real check on Government expenditure. In that light I feel that one is right in asking: does this Budget statement help the ordinary person in the achievement of that innate desire of every person to save and to fend for oneself? Unquestionably, everyone must welcome, at any time, by whatever means, a reduction in the rate of Income Tax,  but when it is offset at the same time by the increased levy on petrol consumption one has only to divide the advantage of 4s. a week in reduction of Income Tax for a person with an income of £600 or £700 by the number of ninepences per gallon on petrol to find that the two items rapidly cancel each other. I may or may not have been alone today in the receipt from the City of Leeds of a telegram representing 600 medical practitioners in that city complaining on their behalf that the imposition of a tax of that kind will cause some difficulties and will easily offset any advantages which may have been received by way of reduced Income Tax. That not only applies to the medical profession, but to all professional persons and to every section of the community which is dependent for transport upon private cars. I wish to associate myself with the remarks of the hon. Member for Gloucestershire, South (Mr. Crosland), but I would have preferred to see an approach to some easing of taxation on beer rather than the ""third degree"" approach. Surely it would have been possible, by the careful pruning of expenditure to which I have referred, to have brought about, as that hon. Member suggested and as I agree, a reduction of 2d. on every pint of beer. My hon. Friend the Member for Spelthorne (Mr. G. Craddock) referred to the sum of £17 million which was spent last year towards the reduction of the debt which we owe for Post-war Credits and in respect of a similar sum of £17 million which is provided in this year's Estimates. One takes comfort, whatever that may be, from the remark of the Chancellor yesterday that any extensions that have been suggested would have been too costly for us to afford; but is a debt of honour at any time ever too costly to afford? There are many cases, to two of which I will refer, which provide special circumstances wherein these Postwar Credits should be repaid. I hope it will not be suggested that these hard cases make bad law, because I have yet to find that it is bad law to pay a man back money properly owed to him. I feel it should be possible for the country to repay Post-war Credits to persons when they are suffering from some form of incurable disease and are totally unfit and unable to work. Surely   no one in this Committee who desires to pursue the policy suggested by the Chancellor would wish to oppose a suggestion of that kind. Nowadays Post-war Credits are repaid when a man is 65, or a woman is 60; but it is possible for a man to die at the age of 64 and, if he leaves it to his son, aged 30, the son has to wait until he is 65. He might have the misfortune of dying at 64, and so on it goes. I know a case of a widow aged 42 whose husband died two years ago. She cannot work and has a mother to look after. She has a child living with her. She cannot draw Post-war Credits left to her and has to hope she will live until she is 60 because, if she dies before that age, under present rules her daughter will have to wait until she is 60 years of age. Of the many examples of which hon. Members must know from their own constituencies, there are many cases of persons—men under 65 years of age—who are suffering and are certified to be suffering from diseases which are incurable. They may have a limited expectation of life. I could quote many cases of men of 58, 52, 55 and one man of 50 with a very limited expanse of life before him who has spent all he has in order to present a decent front and make ends meet. The country owes him £60 in Post-war Credits, but he cannot draw them because, at the age of 50, he is not qualified. I think that with proper safeguards and machinery which already exists through one or other of the Ministries which at present organise the receipt of claims of this kind, no hardship would be caused to the national Exchequer, but a great relief would be provided for the recipients if these Postwar Credits could be paid. I believe these things are capable of being achieved by the Chancellor in the pursuit of his ambition that we shall all be able to journey together along some sort of a road. He has it in his power. It is in the power of the Government to remove many of the obstacles which prevent our greater and speedier progress. If all that can be done, not only the Chancellor but the whole country will be happier.
