gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am conscious of the great honour that is mine in rising to address this House for the first time, all the more so as although this is an occasion that has been long looked forward to by me it has frequently seemed unlikely in my political career that it would be achieved. It has taken me some twenty years of unrelenting controversy, including five undoubtedly controversial Parliamentary Elections, to   reach this House. It is, therefore, not entirely easy for me to adjust myself to a non-controversial occasion such as this should and must be. I hope, therefore, that the House will grant me its indulgence if in any way I should go astray. It is my most sincere hope that what I have to say will mollify rather than exacerbate the controversy in this debate, which is of such vital importance to the people of all classes of our country. It is with some feeling of temerity that I am embarking on an economic debate as a pure tyro in economics. My excuse, first, is the great sense of urgency of the present situation, and, second, that as one who has spent the major part of his life as a practising doctor, I think I can claim to know the people of this country perhaps as well as anyone. My father, too, practised as a doctor amongst the working classes of the industrial town of Bury, in Lancashire, for some years. As soon as I was old enough, I was put in his trap—it was a horse and trap in those days—and taken with him on his rounds. The streets of that industrial town formed a background that is woven into my memories. I remember, as do so many others in this House, the back streets, the courts and the yards, and the squalor that often pertained to them—places that, fortunately, have long since been demolished. I remember, too, the children with bare feet. My only regret was that I was the small middle-class child who was not allowed to go in bare feet. I remember the bond of sympathy between my father and his patients, and I remember too the great kindness that was shown me by those same patients as a small boy. I have found this same warmheartedness and kindness amongst the people of the constituency who did me the honour to return me to this House last May, and about which it is proper that I may say a few words. It hardly needs me to publicise the historic City of Carlisle, whose octo-centenary celebration is due in three years' time. As well as history, Carlisle has industry—biscuits, metal boxes, textiles, engineering and other things; and as well as industry, we have romance also as our background. Carlisle served as a refuge to Mary Queen of Scots. When one stands on the battlements of Carlisle Castle, one can see the road winding up the hill to Scotland which was the inspiration  of that famous lyric ""Loch Lomond"" and the ""high road"" to Scotland. We also have an experiment in State public houses, although it is better perhaps if I do not indulge in any comments concerning them on this occasion. A special feature of our city today is that no less than two out of five houses in it are council houses and owned by the city corporation. In fact, we have two cities in Carlisle. The older city, down by the river, has very good houses and is remarkably free from slums, for our Carlisle builders are second to none and one of them, in fact, is a world-famous firm. We have a new city too, a city on the hills around, the corporation-owned houses to which I have referred. It is a pleasant experience indeed to go round the newer parts of the city and see the well-dressed children and the nicely-furnished houses. It is of these new standards of life and of the children who are to be our citizens of the future that I am thinking in the few words which I have to say on the subject of today's debate. The crux of our discussion is the question of the rise in prices. Each one of us must, and does, interpret the economic situation through his own eyes. Economically, I am a small man. My only other occupation, in addition to being a Member of this House, is that of a small, independent book publisher. No one can accuse us small book publishers of making excess profits during recent years. The fate of many of us is only too well known. Nor am I personally affected by the credit squeeze. Indeed, my prudent bank manager has made it quite clear these many years that he would have nothing to do with a business such as mine. Our costs have gone up from three to five times, but our products only about twice. Hence it was with a feeling of awe, and especial dismay, that I found among the first of my New Year's greeting messages a communication from my printer, of the sort that has become familiar. It was worded in the usual euphemistic language, to the effect that negotiations between the British Federation of Master Printers and of the trade unions in the printing industry had been going on in an endeavour to reach a new agreement. The heading of that document was, ""Increases in Printing Charges."" At the bottom was the mention of a percentage increase in charges of from 2½ per cent. to 12½ per cent., with a hint that it might be 15 per cent. As a book publisher responsible for the end product, I have two choices. Either I can go out of business or I can pay these increased prices and put up my own prices to the book buyers, not only at home but also in the export market, which is even more important. I do not pretend that my own small amount of business is of any great significance, and I mention it only because I know that it is an instance that can be multiplied many times over today. I am ready to acknowledge that there may be many factors contributory to this present crisis, and that it may be, as an hon. Gentleman opposite has said, that manufacturers have been only too ready to build up profits when they have found a ready market for their goods. Indeed, I have often accused my printer of doing that. Be that as it may, there is no question that the biggest single threat to cur economy at the moment lies in the pending claims for increases of wages and salaries. I add ""and salaries"" deliberately, because the professional organisations, including, I acknowledge, that of the doctors, have not been slow to show themselves capable of emulating the trade unions in these new conditions of full employment we have been discussing. Looking at the whole picture, it does seem, in my very simple reasoning, futile for the Chancellor to take £50 million—£100 million, perhaps—out of the economy if five or ten times that amount is to be put back by wage and salary increases. This is the crucial problem which faces us. My political record—my rather unsuccessful political record, to which I have referred—shows that at least I have been no supporter in the past of either national or coalition Governments. I believe that party politics are the essential breath of our democratic life. In this present situation there are obviously acute differences as to the method to pursue to cure our economic ills. Yet I believe it to be unfortunate if, in emphasising those differences, we lose sight of the unity of our national aim and object of retaining our standard of living. The rise in the Bank Rate, I think I am right in saying, makes it the highest since 1931. I do not want to say anything about our very similar crisis of twenty-five years ago, but to recall the spirit with which the country received the announcement of the economies to be made in those days. It was one of united determination to get out of our difficulties at the cost of any personal sacrifice. One found retired people in the golf clubs discussing almost with relish the cuts in their salaries.
