gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House on this the occasion of my maiden speech. I am deeply conscious of the inadequacy of my expression, which springs from a feeling of overwhelming nervousness, and for this I apologise to the House. My constituency of Neath is in South Wales. It is a place where one finds many sharp and vivid contrasts. On the one hand, there are within its boundaries great industrial undertakings which make a vital contribution to the country's economy, for instance, coal mining, steel making, oil refining and light industry. Alongside this industrial activity, there is much scenic beauty in the valleys which comprise the constituency, a beauty which, over the past few years, has been greatly enhanced by the operations of the Forestry Commission. It is also a place where one finds many reminders of our country's past history, for in the Borough of Neath itself there is much evidence showing that Neath was a place of considerable importance in Roman and Norman times, and, just outside, we have preserved for us as a result of the preservation work of the Ministry of Public Building and Works evidence that the area was a centre of considerable activity in the early Church in these islands. The interest of the people of Neath in cultural matters is very marked. There are few constituencies which could claim that, operating and functioning regularly, there were six amateur operatic societies, a considerable number of choral and dramatic societies, and—I see that there are several of my Welsh colleagues present—considerable interest in the Eisteddfod. I am proud to be the Parliamentary representative of such a constituency, which, for 19 years, has been represented by one who earned considerable respect both inside the House and outside for his quiet wisdom and his sincerity of purpose, a man who, we are all happy to see, is making a good recovery after  the unfortunate accident which he sustained in his home. I refer, of course, to Mr. David Williams. Although I have spoken of the beauty, the historical associations and the cultural life of my constituency, it is to its industrial affairs that I wish to apply myself in the short time available to me, directing the attention of the House in particular to the problem of accident prevention in industry. This is a subject of great interest to the people of Neath who earn their livelihood in the industries there. If an examination is made of the reports of Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Factories and of the Ministry of Labour, one finds that an unsatisfactory comparison occurs between the time lost to industry through industrial disputes and that lost through industrial injuries. Unfortunately, strikes and lock-outs make the newspaper headlines, whereas accidents do not usually do so. I once heard a definition of an industrial accident as being an unexpected contact with interference with the work activity of a workman. Such interference is something which should not be tolerated in a modern industrial society, especially as most of these accidents can be avoided, as it is a waste of valuable productive effort. My right hon. Friend the Minister of Labour is, I know, well aware of the continuing rise in the number of injuries sustained, and this is also the case with many industrial and trade union leaders who have a great concern with the problem, for they see that an industry which has a high incidence of accidents is not an efficient industry. The extent of the problem is often worse than that shown from sources from which we get the figures showing the accident rate, for these figures do not show the alarming increase in the incidence of minor injuries which are only minor because of the intervention of good fortune. I have said that most of these accidents could be prevented and the wastage of productive effort avoided. This has been found by those industries, such as steel, coal mining, oil refining and others, which place the highest importance upon accident prevention and in which it is understood both by employer and employed alike. I am sure that, in these   industries, this consciousness of the need for accident prevention will show, with the passage of time, a considerable improvement in the safety performance. However, it is among the smaller firms that one comes across failure to appreciate the full importance of efficient accident prevention and where there is a lack of conviction on the part of employer and employee that safe working is in everyone's interest. The factory regulations lay down that, where a firm employs 20 or more persons, a safety supervisor must be employed, but it is the experience of many of us who sit as magistrates and who have to listen to prosecutions brought by Her Majesty's Inspector of Factories against employers because some factory regulation or other has not been complied with, that the supervisor is usually a man who has other responsibilities and regards his responsibility for the safety performance of his men as not having quite the same degree of importance as some of his other duties. Because of this, he fails to inspire in his men a conviction of the importance to them, to their families and to the country, of adopting safe working procedure. Accident prevention is a human problem. It is a question of getting the right attitude and motivation towards it. It is not a job which can really be left to someone to do as a part-time occupation and this, of course, has been recognised by some of our larger industrial concerns. Here I would like to pay particular tribute to the firm of which I was an employee before entering this House—the Steel Company of Wales, which has placed a very high importance upon the need for efficient accident prevention and a high safety performance. This need for a concentration upon this performance in safety is becoming all the more important as we note the increase in the use of mechanisation. At present, there are excellent short courses which are arranged and from which benefit is derived. There is also the Institute of Industrial Safety Officers, which has 1,200 to 1,300 members. Through its membership, it offers a yardstick of efficiency in accident prevention. However, there are 2,000 safety officers in industry who could well be in possession of such a qualification. Unfortunately, no prescribed course is available to any man who wishes to attain a qualification through the Institute.  If he wishes to do so, he is left to his own devices, to work out his own salvation. I hope that consideration will be given to the possibility of establishing something like sandwich courses at some of our colleges of technology, which would certainly assist in promoting the preparation of people to obtain this qualification. If we are to advance the new techniques in industry and introduce new methods of production, we must pay a higher regard to the task of preventing industrial accidents, and we must see to it that there are men and women who are trained am properly qualified to do this work. We do not employ a man, when we employ him to do a job, to pay partly for the job by spilling his blood. I regard the prevention of accidents in industry as one of the most important problems we have to overcome in a modern industrial society. I thank the House for the indulgence and consideration which have been shown me this evening.
