gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me. I will adhere to what you ask me and restrict my remarks, because there are a number of Members on both sides to speak, ar so that they may have their opportunity, and so that we can properly answer one another. In making my maiden speech, I am glad to be able to make it in this debate, because, like the hon. Member for Bradford, South (Mr. Torney), I represent an area which is a typical working class area. My constituents are what one may call average working families. Apart from a very small number of houses which are owner-occupied in the slum clearance areas the people of my constituency live in properties owned by Birmingham City Council, and live, the majority of them, in multi-storey blocks of flats and maisonettes. While the city council, under Tory control, has endeavoured to sell as many council properties as it can it has not been successful in the Ladywood constituency in selling one property up to the present. One ward in the constituency, which comprises approximately 60 per cent. of the electorate, has the highest child population of any ward in Birmingham and the least amount of public open space. Figures which are given by the city statistician in Birmingham show that on average the people in Ladywood are average-wage earners, people earning approximately £25 per week gross, with take-home pay of roughly £22 a week. When we are talking about average pay it is important for us to remember that the average weekly wage of many wage earners does not take into consideration the many anti-social hours which they are   asked to work to receive that remuneration. Many of my constituents have to work on night shifts and also around the clock shifts, from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m., from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m., from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., to keep factory wheels turning—very anti-social hours for what is an average weekly wage. I would not insult the housewives of Ladywood by telling them to shop around to get competitive prices. They do not need a Prime Minister or any member of the Government to tell them how to make their weekly budgets go further. The housewives in Ladywood—I think the housewives in the majority of areas of this country—use not only their mental resources but also their physical skill to shop around, and naturally, so that the families' resources are spent to the very best advantage. It was only last week, in the constituency, that one of the male electors told me, ""It is a great problem, Mrs. Fisher, earning the weekly wage, but the greatest credit, the biggest credit, should go to my wife, who has the job of making it go round each week"". The constituency itself surrounds the centre of the city of Birmingham and includes the city centre. It includes small and medium-sized factories; there are the skills of the gun makers, the crafts of the jewellery quarter, the printing industry, heavy industries, including also electrical accessories manufacture: in short, multifarious types of jobs. We have no rolling downs or visions from the clifftop. Our greatest attribute is the gasworks, which takes up a large area of the constituency; we have no other claim to fame. For 25 years the constituency was represented by the late Victor Yates. He made speeches in the House for 25 years, and the House thought of him as a typical constituency Member of Parliament. He knew his constituents and represented them well. Hon. Members will be aware that Ladywood is the smallest constituency in the country and my days might be numbered if there were to be a General Election in the near future but, while I am here, I hope that I shall be able to follow in the worthy footsteps of Mr. Victor Yates. The Tories believe that a subsidy should not be paid to people who can  afford to pay the full economic price. I am concerned how to define the people who can pay the full economic price. The people who are being asked to pay the full economic price in the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposals are wage earners with an average weekly wage of between £25 and £30 and who are paying £6 or £6 10s. rent for a council property or an equivalent amount if they are repaying a mortgage. They pay £1 10s. to £2 a week for gas and electricity and £1 to £2 a week on bus fares to get to and from work. Are these the people who can afford to pay the full economic price? It was stated in the Press last week that this mini-budget would make the rich richer and give the factory worker a battering. My constituents in the main are factory workers, family men with children. They have read the Press with keen interest and have worked out how much they will lose by these measures. Although I could not follow very clearly the Chancellor of the Exchequer this afternoon I have been able to understand that my constituents will be much worse off. I am concerned about the tremendous number of children who will suffer from the loss of free school milk. In Birmingham 16,000 children daily receive free school meals. An assessment has been made of the income of their families and these children are entitled to receive free school meals. If they are in that category, it could legitimately be argued that they should also receive free milk. If free milk is denied to these children they will suffer a severe loss which in the years to come will have repercussions on the health services. There are practically no problems for the wealthy in obtaining maximum benefits in the way of tax concessions. Because they can afford to do so they are able to consult accountants who are skilled in the art and who are able to see any financial gain that is possible for that person. But what about the average working man? How does he wade through complicated details in working out the different forms of benefit? I run a weekly advice bureau in my constituency and I am constantly being asked to find out for people whether it will pay them to have a rent rebate, an educational maintenance allowance, or   whether it will pay them to send their wives out to work. All these are complicated matters for working people to ponder over in deciding what benefits they should go for. Only a fortnight ago I took up a case of one of my constituents, a widow, who was receiving a rent rebate from the Birmingham City Council. She asked me what she should be doing about her children who were still at school. I took up the case successfully with the Birmingham Education Authority and very quickly they gave a maintenance allowance for her two children who are both over 14. Unfortunately, because she was awarded that allowance she lost all her rent rebate and at the end found herself two shillings a week worse off. How is the average weekly wage earner to be able to work these matters out? Once a particular subsidy is requested and goes forward, it can easily cancel out anything that may be obtainable from any other source. Authority does not like to be messed around too much by people going along to the education department and saying, ""You can keep your maintenance allowances. I will have my rent rebate back."" These are the problems and difficulties that the average working man and woman has to face. As a result of the provisions of the new Bill dealing with supplementary family income even the working wife who takes a little part-time job in an effort to supplement the family income may have to stop working. These are complicated calculations for people to have to work out and they ought not to be called upon to exercise all their skills to sort them all out. If the Government are as interested in the lower paid worker as they claim to be, why have they not tried to persuade employers to improve minimum earnings so that relief under the new supplementary family incomes Bill would become completely unnecessary? We should ask ourselves not whether people benefit under these schemes, but whether the whole approach on tax cuts and increased payments for social services will help to solve our economic problems. Are the steps which have already been taken—and we know that there are more to come which may lead to increased council house rents, and there are even whispers of payment for  hospital beds—likely to lead to the sort of society in which we want to live? The budget this week was not about inflation or the balance of payments. It was about the redistribution of national wealth in favour of those who earn most. We hear arguments from the Tories that the price of goods in the shops will be kept down by the forces of competition. They argue that the cutting of taxes is necessary and also put up a case for wage restraint. But is it social justice when the people who are now called upon to pay the extra costs for worsening social services are the same people who are also asked to accept a limit on wages to benefit the big income tax payer? Does this help to achieve the aim of one nation upon which we are all asked to support the Prime Minister? What is so significant is the principle now approved by the Government: that instead of increasing these charges to raise money for essential services it should be done mainly for the purpose of trimming taxation. Our clothes might provide a useful fashionable cliché. I see this as a ""see-through"" budget with a deep cleavage style which divides the ""haves"" from the ""have nots"".
