gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am indebted to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me this early opportunity to make my maiden speech. I hope that the right hon. Member for Crosby (Mr. Page) will forgive me if I do not follow the line of his argument. I should very much like to do so, particularly in relation to the birch, to the reintroduction of which I am totally opposed. I wish to thank the electors of Nelson and Colne for giving me the opportunity to speak in the House. I must say a few words about my constituency, which is industrial and peopled by sturdy folk. It is still very dependent on textiles, and is suffering from low-cost imports of textiles, particularly from Turkey and  Greece. Unless something is done urgently, short-time working will be followed by widespread unemployment in the textile areas of Lancashire. I hope that the House will take urgent action. I must also refer to the previous Members for Nelson and Colne, particularly my immediate predecessor Mr. David Waddington. Although he is not of the same political persuasion as I am, he worked tirelessly for the electors. It would be wrong of me not to refer also to my illustrious predecessor, Mr. Sydney Silverman, who represented the constituency for 33 years and gained a name for himself in the House. I am told that he was only once interrupted when making a speech, and it took the death of a monarch to do that. I know that it is one of the rules of the House that one must not be controversial in a maiden speech. All I can promise in making this speech is that I shall be as uncontroversial as Sydney Silverman was. I am sorry that my hon. Friend the Member for Fife, Central (Mr. Hamilton) has left the Chamber. He posed a number of questions. I hope to deal with several matters that he raised, particularly in relation to the referendum. I agree with my hon. Friend that it would be unthinkable to have a General Election within the next 12 months. I know that we shall stay here at least four years to enrich the lives and prospects of the people. The referendum is not the alien thing that my hon. Friend made it out to be. There are plenty of precedents. There was the Northern Ireland referendum, introduced by the last Conservative Government. If it is good enough for one group of our citizens, it is good enough for all. In 1893 Professor Dicey, a great constitutional authority as well as a distinguished Conservative, wrote to Joseph Chamberlain on the question of Irish home rule, saying: To the referendum we shall come at last I am certain. It is the only scheme for giving the constitution any permanence which is at once effective and unmistakably democratic. A referendum on Ireland became Conservative policy, and was duly added in 1911 to the Irish Home Rule Bill. By 1910 the Conservatives had accepted the theory that major constitutional changes   should be decided by plebiscite, and they said that tariff reform was a matter for a referendum. Coming a little more up to date, we find that in 1945 Winston Churchill proposed in a letter to the other political leaders that there should be a referendum on whether the life of the Parliament which had been in office since 1935 should be extended at least until the end of the Japanese war. I think that the examples I have chosen are in line with the present situation. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Fife, Central that it would be unthinkable to have a referendum on every issue. That would be entirely wrong. However, there should be referenda on questions of major importance, and particularly on the transfer of power from this Parliament to Brussels. I believe that I have come to this House at an historical moment. I am being told repeatedly that Parliament is losing some of its power. I want that power to be restored. How do we begin to organise a referendum? I was pleased to hear from my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs that we shall be getting a White Paper before very long. I hope that it will soon be published and that it will be based upon the precedent of Northern Ireland. That would be a simple and effective way of dealing with the matter. The questions asked should be short but direct. I think that there should be two questions—namely. ""Do you want to stay in the Common Market?"" and, secondly, ""Do you want to come out of the Common Market?"". I believe that the electors, faced with that choice, would be able to make the decision. Having established the framework, we should also establish many other things. For instance, when the referendum is held, as it surely will be, I want to reject once and for all the concept that there should be a free vote. The matter was made clear in my party's manifesto. We are committed to letting the British people decide at the ballot box. That is why I reject the concept of a free vote. Of course, we know that there will be many interested parties. That will be quite different from the Irish situation. For instance, there will be parties that are not even in this country that will be interested. Further, many large industrial companies will be very interested in the discussion that will take place on the referendum. We know that they have not been afraid to use their money in other political campaigns. There is also the European Movement which, I believe, has half a million pounds in its coffers. I do not know from where that money came but I know where I do not want it to go. I want limits placed—my hon. Friend the Member for Fife, Central put forward this argument—on the expenditure that can be incurred during the course of the referendum. That already applies to General Elections, so why should it not apply when holding a referendum? Before the referendum takes place, we know that the Press will be lined up on one side. Because of the lack of balance that will result, I hope we shall ensure that radio and television time is equally divided so that those who are for the Market and those who are against it shall have an equal opportunity to express their views. Why not have a national lobby for those who are in favour and for those who are against, similar to what happened in Norway? Only in that way do I believe that we shall know the will of the people. I also wish to deal with another odd notion that has been kicking its way about for some time—namely, that the retention of membership will validate all previous decisions and that a vote for withdrawal will mean that the Government can recommence negotiations. I utterly reject that concept. I believe that the negotiations and the vote should be binding. Further I believe that the renegotiation that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs is conducting should be speeded up. It is right and proper, and particularly desirable, that the vote should take place very soon. Certainly it should take place by next spring. I have made my position clear. I believe that we should withdraw. The trade deficit with the EEC countries in 1973 was £1,167 million. The estimated deficit this year has risen to £1,800 million. That is an increase of 54 per cent. I do not believe that we can any   longer afford to be in the Market. If we continue to stay in it, we could face difficulties in carrying out certain matters that we have outlined in the Queen's Speech. I believe that we should be free to organise our resources of oil, gas and coal. As I have said, I believe that we should come out of the Common Market, but I look forward very much to the will of the people being tested in the manner that I have described.
