gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I know that I can depend on the courtesy and tolerance for which the House is famous. I feel very privileged to be allowed to make my maiden speech in a debate of such importance. I think we all have in our minds the sense of tragedy that exists compared with the high hopes we had when the war finished in 1945. At that time we all believed and hoped that Russia would co-operate in bringing about a real United Nations, a real co-operation of friendship and peace and understanding throughout the world. But all of us, whatever our political views, must now have the feeling that Russia has determined on a certain course of action. As the right hon. Member for Lewisham, South (Mr. H. Morrison) also has said, I should not be the one to criticise that that view of the Russians may not seem to them wise and far-seeing; but to the remainder of the world, I am sure all hon. Members will agree, it is an attitude which, we feel, leads to tension and unrest. If I might play on words, the one thing that seems to me to have come out of the Berlin Conference is that when the Russians say ""No,"" they mean ""Niet must fall on Germany."" In the few minutes for which I shall detain the House, I am going to speak about German rearmament. In case hon. Members should think I am a starry-eyed idealist who imagines that there is no  danger in such a move, I should make it clear that in 1945 my last actions in hostilities were to disarm an S.S. division. My feelings about the Germans when I went into the area of occupation were so anti-German that I did not speak or deal with any German direct, but only through a third person. Therefore, nobody at that time could say that I was pro-German. Since then, however, I have given the problem of Germany a great deal of thought, as, I know, all hon. Members have done. The question is whether we can keep a great and proud people as a vacuum in the centre of Europe; and the answer, without any shadow of doubt, is ""No."" As my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary said this afternoon, the problem is that if we do not welcome German as a friend, the thing we fear— German rearmament—will still take place; but it will take place by the Germans acting unilaterally and not in accordance with the great mutual concept of Western defence. Therefore, in trying to clear my mind of this fear and problem, I thought I might get guidance by going back into history. When one does that, it is amazing how the history of France and of Germany is akin. We all remember the Kaiser's war, very similar in essence to the wars of Louis XIV, when France under Louis XIV threatened Europe Both of them had delusions of grandeur. That was followed, in France, by the attempt of Napoleon to conquer the whole of Europe and, in Germany, by Hitler, who had the same desires and ambitions. After that had happened in France, it took the British people a century to realise that the balance of power had altered for all time in Europe and that France was no longer a danger to world peace, but that another great Power had grown up, and was growing, which from then onwards, until the situation changed again, was the danger that we in this country had to guard against. I believe that our fears about Germany are in exactly the same position as the fears of the people of this country in the 19th Century about France. I believe it is true that up to 1850 or 1860, every nursemaid frightened her charges into good behaviour by saying that if they were not good, ""Boney"" would come and deal with them. He was the bogy that   existed not for five or 10 years, but for the greater part of the 19th century. I believe we are now faced with the bogy of Germany, and in my view Germany will never again be a threat to the peace of the world. What is the situation? Here we have Russia and her satellites with a population of 300 million people, and Western Germany with a population of approximately 60 million people. The difference in numbers is far too great, but if we do not offer to bring Germany into the orbit of Western democracy, then Germany will be pulled towards the Eastern totalitarian form of government. Therefore I say to the House with all sincerity yet humbly, realising that my opinions will not carry very much weight, that we have seen at Berlin the Russians deciding on their course of action, and that our correct action now would be to offer the hand of friendship to Western Germany as an equal, with no conditions, because there can be no real friendship between friends if there are conditions on which that friendship is based. I believe if we do that we shall draw Western Germany into the Western orbit; we shall strengthen them as a freedom-loving people and we shall strengthen the military, moral and industrial resources of the Western world. No one in Western Europe has any aggressive intentions. It will be an insurance, because if Germany is once integrated into Western Europe—and I believe with so many other hon. Members that at the moment we are watching the gradual breaking down of national boundaries—then we shall be taking a great step towards the breaking down of those national boundaries, and towards the co-operation, industrially, commercially, artistically and morally, of all these peoples. At the same time, we shall remove the fear of the danger of Western Germany being dragged into the Russian orbit, and Western Germany will be given the chance to build a truly democratic State. Therefore, I hope that the step will be taken as speedily as possible, because I believe that every day that goes by makes the invitation or welcome more unreal and less warm in the eyes of the German people. We want them to come as friends, and we believe that if they come under those conditions they can make a  great contribution towards the future well being and the freedom and peace of the world.
