gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech I should like to pay tribute to my predecessor, Ian MacArthur. As I said when the result for my constituency was declared, if I can be as good a constituency Member of Parliament as he was I shall have achieved much. I agreed with the hon. Member for Renfrewshire, West (Mr. Buchan) when he condemned the birch. But there agreement ends. If we are anti-English, why do we have as national treasurer in the Scottish National Party a gentleman who hails from Leeds and rejoices in the excellent Scottish name of Murgatroyd? The hon. Gentleman also alluded to culture and quoted from one of the greatest nationalists of all time. I am sorry that having done so, he should then sell Scotland short. As a new boy to the House and representing a party whose principal aim is for Scotland to regain her self-respect and self-determination in a fully-sovereign Scottish Parliament, I must admit to having to pinch myself several times during the debate yesterday. It almost seemed as if self-government had been achieved and the sovereign Scottish Parliament was in session. The hon. Members for Edinburgh, Central (Mr. Cook), Dumfries (Mr. Monro), Paisley (Mr. Robertson), North Angus and Mearns (Mr. Buchanan-Smith), West Stirlingshire (Mr. Canavan), Motherwell and Wishaw (Dr. Bray), the  Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition all said how much they cared for Scotland and how important Scotland was. We have had protestations of interest in Scottish industry, Scottish agriculture, housing, social affairs, and many promises about them. As the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Foot) said during the previous Parliament, the road to Damascus is pretty crowded these days. But let there be no mistake: the development of all these sectors costs money, and money itself costs money. That brings me to the point that members of the Scottish National Party are interested in what the hon. Member for Renfrewshire, West described as the staff of life. Scotland has no balance of payments deficit. Even before oil came upon the scene, the respected and scrupulously non-political Scottish Council for Industry indicated that Scotland had a balance of payments surplus. Perhaps the hon. Member for Motherwell and Wishaw, who said that it was greedy for the people of Scotland to lay claim to what was theirs, will take that argument to its logical conclusion and say that it is greedy for the United Kingdom Government to lay claim to the oil. Let us say it is Common Market oil. Let us say that it is United Nations oil. I should have thought that oil in Scottish territorial waters was the possession of the people of Scotland. Scotland, with a balance of payments surplus, will not need to fund a balance of payments deficit. There will be no balace of payments deficit, and, therefore, interest rates would probably be fixed by a Scottish Government at a level considerably lower than those prevailing in the United Kingdom today. The United Kingdom bank rate, or, as it is now called, base rate, is 11½ per cent. Let us compare that with rates in other small countries similar in size and aims and aspirations to Scotland. Norway has a bank rate of 5½ per cent.; Sweden 7 per cent.; Austria 6½ per cent.; and Switzerland 5½ per cent. If we compare these with what could be set in Scotland, we can begin to see what would happen when Scotland resumed self-government. The cost of money for the development, improvement and enhancement of Scotland's industry, agriculture, housing and   social services will come down. It might not even be too facile to suggest that the bank rate in a self-governing Scotland might well be almost half that at present prevailing in the United Kingdom and I am sure that all hon. Members would be glad to see a lower bank rate. It can and will be achieved in a self-governing Scotland. The Gracious Speech and the protestations of hon. Members of their concern for Scotland took no notice of that. Unless and until they do and unless and until Scotland's healthy balance of payments situation is reflected in considerably lower bank interest rates, the people of Scotland will not be getting a fair reward for their efforts and resources. I understand that it is customary for a maiden speaker not to be controversial. I shall not take issue with the hon. Member for Renfrewshire, West about many of the points that he made, but I certainly hope to be able to do so in future.
