gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I rise to make my first and rather short contribution to debate in this place, I am conscious of two advantages. First, I have the great privilege of following my friend Jo Godber as Member for Grantham. He has represented the constituency for 28 years. During that time he served our country, this House and his constituents with unusual honour and distinction. Amongst those whom I represent his name will be remembered for many years with great respect, admiration and affection. My majority in May was in great part of a legacy from Jo Godber. I speak on behalf of his many friends in this House and elsewhere in saying that I am indeed pleased that he accepted a peerage. I am sure that he will continue to make an important and distinctive contribution to the conduct of affairs of the nation. The other advantage of which I am conscious is the great privilege that I have of representing the constituency of Grantham. Having regard to the lateness of the hour and your injunction to be brief, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I do not propose to take hon. Members on a conducted tour around my constituency. Suffice it to say that I regard it as a great honour to be chosen by the electors of Grantham. I propose to serve their interests in this place to the best of my ability. I fear that I am being a little presumptuous as a new Member in rising to contribute to the debate, conscious as I am that it requires a degree of specialisation. I hope that it will not be put down to arrogance but rather to joie de vivre. I begin by congratulating my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House on so speedily and completely seeking to implement the recommendations of the Select Committee on Procedure. A major function of this House is the scrutiny and control of the administrative workings of the Executive. We are here to restrain the workings of government. We ignore that obligation at our peril. Individual Members or groups of Members acting collectively pursuant to some ad hoc arrangement are no longer able to scrutinise and examine, far less control, the day-to-day decisions of those Government Departments that affect the lives of   us all. The scope and range of government and the complexities of the issues that we are concerned with demonstrate that the constitutional arrangements that served nineteenth century Britain well are now quite inadequate for the purpose. It is only through the formation of the Select Committee system envisaged in the motion that this House can hope to subject the Executive to careful and continued scrutiny. That is the first and principal reason why I support the motion. I have another reason. I share the views expressed by my hon. Friends the Members for Manchester, Withington (Mr. Silvester) and for Essex, South-East (Sir B. Braine). In the past, most hon. Members who wished to make a positive contribution to debate and the conduct of public affairs tended to look to the hierarchy within their party for preferment. Naturally, they felt unwilling unduly to displease the grandees within their parties. I suspect that this placed some restraint upon their ability and willingness to act independently of the party line. I hope and believe that the existence of this kind of Select Committees will provide an alternative career for those seeking to make a positive contribution to the conduct of public affairs. I think that that is likely to increase people's independence of action and of thought. It is with a sense of dismay that I realise that I share some of the views of the hon. Member for Fife, Central (Mr. Hamilton) expressed in his amendment. The dismay is mine. I do not think that the hon. Gentleman need feel any concern. Unlike my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House, I think it important that the Committees should have the power to order the attendance of Ministers. As I understand it, the ultimate decision as to whether those Ministers attend will lie with the House. That is surely a sufficient answer to the anxiety expressed by my right hon. Friend that in certain circumstances it would be inappropriate or otherwise undesirable for Ministers to attend. To deny the Committees the power to order the attendance of Ministers is, in my judgment, to detract from their prestige and status. I of course accept my right hon. Friend's assurances that his colleagues  will co-operate with Select Committees. But we are not tonight providing for one year, two years or three years. We are embarking on major constitutional change. We must contemplate, and in the end provide against, a breed of Ministers, perhaps not yet in the House, who will be less willing than my right hon. and hon. Friends to appear before Select Committees and answer questions. I have lived with the ministerial mind for many years. Although it is a remarkable mechanism, it is singularly unwilling to answer questions. I welcome the motion. It introduces a valuable reform, which I hope is but the first of a number of constitutional reforms to be introduced by this Government. I wish the Select Committees well, and I ask my hon. Friends to do likewise.
