gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like many other new Members of this House I believe that I shall get the kind indulgence of the House on addressing it for the first time. I speak with mixed feelings, and I am inclined to agree with an hon. Member who addressed us earlier on from these benches and said that his impressions of the House were not very favourable up to date. I would not like in my present frame of mind to pass judgment on it but will leave it to the future to determine. But it has seemed to me with the Debates that I have so far listened to, that the depth and width of the gulf between the two sides of this House are obvious. The party opposite seem to approach every social question from the point of view of looking backwards, whereas we on this side of the House must look forward. One hon. Member on the opposite side said earlier that he could not see any need for the mass of legislation which the Government intended to try to put through this Session. He said it was only in the interest of the Government, and not in the interest of the people. The same hon. Member went back to the Bank Charter Act of 1840 for an illustration of the point of view he wanted to put forward, and he told us that when   that Act was passing through this House, there were seven days in which to discuss it. I would like to remind the Members of this House that many things have happened since then. In the first place, the speed of change has tremendously accelerated, and if this Parliament of ours does not keep pace with that change, then Parliamentary institutions will fall into disrepute, and hon. Members who try to delay the pace of the change will inevitably help that fall into disrepute of the institution of which they think so much. I remember that in the Debate when the Select Committee was set up, a good deal of play was made of the statement made by the Home Secretary when he referred to criticism having brought democracy into disrepute, or words to that effect. If he had used the word ""talk"" he would have been absolutely right, because wherever you look in the world in the last 20 years or so, if there is one thing more than any other which has been the cause of the downfall of many democratic institutions it is the fact that those countries have been unable, by talk, to meet the needs of the common people. The 19th century saw tremendously important developments in the social life of this country and one of them was the emergence of the positive State. I would like to ask this House to consider the implications of that emergence. It is 30 odd years since I read Professor Dicey's book on the law and constitution of this country, but I believe he remarked that in the last quarter of the 19th century there had been a development of collectivism and that collectively the people had been able to do better things for themselves even in those spheres that have hitherto been left to the individual. If you look at the history of the middle of the 19th century, to which reference has already been made, what do you find was the attitude of Parliament towards the life of the people in those days? The attitude of Parliament was simply that of keeping a ring for the individuals who were trying to help their own interests. The positive and fundamental belief of the Members on this side of the House is that the State and the community as a whole have positive responsibility for the welfare of every individual citizen. If you want an illustration of that you have it in the development  of the poor law from its early days, and through it various phases until it has become the social welfare institution of this country. Or you have it in the examples which Sir William Beveridge gave in his report about the growth of the social services in this country from their very small beginnings to the high figure which they reach at the present time. Another revolution has been the emergence of industrial control. The fact is that the Factory Acts in the middle of last century saw developing in the legislation of this country a system capable of infinite expansion. From being merely negative you have their emergence to a positive relation between the State and the individual. In order to illustrate the relations in this country purely from the business side, the right hon. Gentleman who is at present representing this country at Washington has said: Modern capitalism is absolutely irreligious, without internal union, without much public spirit, often though not always mere congeries of pursuers and pursued. I ask hon. Members opposite: is it possible to allow a system without moral basis to run untrammelled through a society such as ours, and, if not, does it not come down to this, that Parliament is responsible for exercising some kind of control over all industrial organisations in the interests of the welfare of humanity? I have been struck in several Debates in this House by the care and solicitude which hon. Members opposite have had for my political soul as a new Member of this House. It has seemed to me that in that care they have shown such a tremendous belief in the traditions, the institutions and the procedure of this House, that they themselves are in greater danger than the new Members on this side. Their danger is that they look upon the traditions, the institutions and the procedure as ends in themselves, rather than as means to an end. The institutions and the traditions of this House, of this Parliament, are not an end in themselves but means to an end, and Parliament will be judged not by the love which hon. Members feel for them but by their capacity to serve the ends for which they came into being. This Parliament of ours has a glorious tradition. It began by serving the interests of the barons, then of the landed aristocracy and then of the indus-   trialists. In our age it must serve the interests of the common people. The growth of our Parliament is one of the glories of this country. It has continually been expanded in order to meet the needs of the various kinds of people who have dominated it. This is the age of the common man, according to the words of the former President of the United States of America, but the requirements of that age can only be met by fundamental changes in the social structure of this country. Two and a half years ago I had the privilege of reading the farewell letter of a young airman who gave his life for this country, and in that farewell message were these words, written to his parents: Thank you for all the ideals you have given me. I can only hops that my end has not been in vain and that you will live to see the realisation of some of those ideals in happier times. That lad was brought up in a Socialist household. I know from contact with him that the ideals of which he spoke were socialist ideals. It is not merely because the people of this country sent this party to the House of Commons to effect Socialist Measures, but it is because hon. Members on this side of the House must keep faith with the lads who have offered their lives in order to achieve those ideals, that we believe in accelerating the passing of legislation through this House. It is not merely because it is in the interests of the Government, but because we believe it is in the interests of the people of this country as a whole.
