gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
When making one's maiden speech I believe that it is the convention to make some remarks about one's constituency. That is hardly  necessary when I look around the House and see the many hon. Members who came to visit that constituency in July in search of the elusive Kensington voter. Kensington is the great cosmopolitan heartland of the capital. South Kensington is an area of great prosperity and architectural heritage. Some 70 per cent. of the homes in that area were built before the first world war. The two great concerns of that area are conservation of the environment and the interests of those people who live in mansion blocks under archaic leaseholding arrangements and who have missed out on the great housing reforms of the past few years. North Kensington is home to two great ethnic minorities. There is a Moroccan population of 7,000 and a West Indian population. although that population is now almost wholly British, which is particularly welcome. Although 30 per cent. of the residents of my constituency were born overseas, as I was, that is no bar to their being utterly British. The economic expansion that has taken place under this Government in the past few years has given the black community of North Kensington the interest that they have sought for so long—to become part of a productive economy, to find jobs without prejudice, to receive a productive share of the new wealth of the country and to have fair policing of their community. The black community looks somewhat askance at the black leaders, who are like the trade union leaders of a decade ago, when they march off full of the sound of fury in one direction leaving the troops behind. I count myself as extraordinarily fortunate in having a truly brilliant parliamentarian as my predecessor. Sir Brandon Rhys Williams was a great parliamentarian and campaigner. He knew that if it took Mr. William Wilberforce 25 years to convince this House that the abolition of slavery was a good idea, those who have more modest aims must still think in terms of decades to achieve them. Sir Brandon made his maiden speech 20 years ago. He argued for something that was regarded as positively quirky: that people should have the right to portable, private, personal pensions. Twenty years later, under this Government and this Chancellor, such pensions were finally created. I feel that Sir Brandon should be the patron saint of all Back Benchers. He was a great campaigner and one of his Bills to put more non-executive directors on the boards of companies to protect the interests of small shareholders was passed by the House earlier this year. It was killed in another place, however, on the very day that Brandon died. I am delighted that that Bill will be reintroduced in the new Session by my hon. Friend the Member for Beaconsfield (Mr. Smith). I hope that the Bill will have the full support of the House, as it had in Brandon's day. I wonder how good a patron saint Brandon would be. Instead of looking down benignly on our proceedings, I believe that he would always be too busy collaring some angel and discussing his latest plan for child benefit for cherubs. I know that Brandon is enormously missed. Whatever the time I may spend in this House, if I can leave it with but a fraction of the affection in which Brandon was held in his constituency and the esteem in which he was held in this House, I shall count myself a lucky man indeed. I came to this House—much to my surprise and greatly to the surprise of the residents of my constituency—having been, for the previous 20 years, once a teenage and then a   decidedly middle-aged scribbler. In those days, in common with many who are participating in this debate, I concentrated on the various economic indicators that show up on the control-panel of the economy. By doing so, however, I often lost touch with the fact that the engine of the economy, which creates the real productive increase in our national wealth, has been purring along for the past six years at almost unprecedented speed. We scribblers enjoy pointing out that some particular measure of inflation or some particular measure of the trade deficit is going wrong. We have done that so much, however, that we have overlooked the extraordinary growth in personal productivity and prosperity that has occurred. Of course it is possible to become excessively hooked on the details of economic matters. One should remember that it is possible to have a high rate of inflation and of growth at the same time. The Government, quite rightly, will not allow that to happen, because it is not economically ideal, but it is possible—witness Brazil. It is possible to have a major deficit in public spending, and strong growth—witness Italy. The Government have rightly put their deficit into surplus. It is possible to have a long and sustained trade deficit and still achieve real economic growth—the Chancellor may find that uncomfortable at the moment—witness the United States. I should remind the House that it is entirely possible to have all those things together—inflation, a public deficit and a trade deficit—and to have no growth in the economy—witness the years when the Labour party was in power in the last years of the 1970s. Growth and a real increase in prosperity per head is economic reality. All other things are but measures towards that. I often feel that when people talk about the economy overheating they are extraordinarily unambitious in the aims that they hold for our economy in the years ahead. The growth course that this Government have followed in the past six years is only the start of a most modest beginning in real growth. It would take this country over 50 years to reach the same wealth per head that Germany has, if both countries continued at the same growth rate; and over 30 years to reach the same wealth as our neighbour, France. Let us not, in fear of overheating, turn back on our course of real economic growth: because that is the real measure of our success. In the policies that we hear advocated by Opposition Members, the only thing that we can be sure of succeeding is that should our economy so overheat that it breaks into spontaneous combustion, a quick spell of a Labour Government would be the fire extinguisher to put out all growth for many years to come. Future growth will come only with vastly increased productivity, and if we open up our labour market to the many people who are desperate to get into it. I do not mean only those who are unemployed but those many millions of people who would like to be employed, if we were able to offer them training and the opportunity to enter a productive job. No single thing prevents that happening more than the collective bargaining that still sets, on one day a year, the wage rates of 100 per cent. of the people who are within its system for the rest of that year. We shall see the system of collective bargaining, for which there was once so fine a  historical need, wither on the vine over the next generation. It is a system of great social injustice and cruelty. One third of people in the labour market at the moment do not come under the system of collective bargaining. They are men and women who sit down with their employers—they may be self-employed—to work out within budgets and their own responsibilities what their remuneration will be; what is expected of them; what their hours of work will be; and what are their productive intentions for the year. That is predominantly a middle-class luxury. The Government have been slow to spread it throughout the community. Whereas at the moment one third of people can fix their own remuneration to their own responsibilities and productivity and two thirds are left out, I predict that within a generation two thirds of employees will be deciding their own remuneration with one third having it forced upon them once a year through collective bargaining. However, that can happen only if the Government will take a lead. As the largest employer and as the employer of all state servants—civil, military, the police and others—they permit that system of single collective bargaining to exist and therefore to hinder the entry into productive work of so many people who wish to work. A mother with children, for example, may want to become involved in work, but, under the system of collective bargaining, she is either ""in"" or ""out"" of work and cannot be on the margin. There are people coming up to retirement who still wish to continue in some form of productive labour and who, under collective bargaining, are either ""in"" or ""out"" and are, therefore, invariably ""out"". As I have said, we shall come to see that system as being, above all, socially regressive and cruel. It is hard to say where the years ahead will lead in terms of economic growth. We know that, 100 years ago, the employment statistics in this country and in Europe were remarkable in that 30 per cent. of people were in domestic service, 20 per cent. in farming and 10 per cent. were employed in some form of horse transport. If we were to say to our grandfathers that all three of those great industries and sources of employment would disappear, our grandfathers would find it impossible to imagine the prosperity that we have in Britain today. Domestic service, which employed 30 per cent. of the working population, has disappeared; yet the grandchild of one who had been in domestic service now serves as the First Lord of the Treasury. Our farmers are almost an endangered species —they are so few and far between—but they pile up their surpluses to the sky in Britain and in Europe despite enormous increases in the world population. As the great-grandson of someone who was an illiterate journeyman-saddler in the horse trade, at least, in politics, I can say that I will be dealing with a superior form of horse manure.
