gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to ask the indulgence of the House which it so generously accords to hon. Members making their contribution for the first time in the Chamber. I have heard senior Parliamentarians liken the delivery of a maiden speech to the ordeal of an amateur conjurer appearing before the Magic Circle to perform his party tricks. My party tricks will be reserved for some other occasion. Today, I shall endeavour to be as non-controversial as possible. I have to declare a two-fold interest, because I have been for most of my professional life a journalist and I have the honour to be a member of one of the largest local authorities in the country, Middlesex County Council. I will make no further reference to that authority, because the hon. Member for Southall (Mr. Pargiter), who is not now in his place, knows a great deal more about that council than I do. I support the Bill unreservedly. It is a considerable improvement on the 1908 Act, which many of us who have been or are journalists consider to be outdated and outmoded. The only criticism I make of the Bill is that in many cases its provisions do not go far enough. I should like to see the names of more bodies added to the Schedule. Also, there is need for a penalty Clause. It will involve the Press in very extensive litigation if it is forced   to take action itself if there is default on the part of some councils. In a debate of this sort, we must get the rôle of the Press in the right perspective. I do not think the sponsors of the Bill are seeking any special privileges for the Press. I was glad to hear that paint confirmed by my hon. Friend the Member for Gloucestershire, South (Mr. Corfield). I have always believed as a journalist, and I think that many members of the public believe, that the Press represents the public and on many occasions is the public. Certain local authorities lack room to accommodate the public, but the Press can be accommodated and can be there to see that justice is done. On balance, I think many hon. Members would subscribe to the view that the local Press does an excellent job, often in adverse circumstances. It lacks the financial resources, the abilities and the staff of the national newspapers. I have discussed the Bill with other journalists, and we are well aware that it will bring added strain to the staffs of some newspapers. There will be more meetings to cover and more space will have to be given to local authority activities, but I am assured that the vast majority of journalists welcome the Bill. It is true that it will mean extra work, but it will give greater opportunity for a better coverage of local government affairs. Many journalists feel that on many occasions over the years there has been evasion of the 1908 Act by certain local authorities. They feel that the spirit of the Act has been contravened, particularly by councils which arbitrarily go into committee, not in the public interest but with the idea of excluding the Press because they do not want something published. Journalists believe that good councils have nothing to fear from the provisions of the Bill. It is only those councils, referred to somewhat obliquely today, which operate in a twilight and which have something to fear which are likely to make representations against the Bill. In my view, the local Press requires much greater information about the activities of local government and a better insight into the reasons for some of the decisions taken there. There  should be more discussion, as I think there will be if the Press is admitted to meetings of committees with delegated powers. Anyone who has waded through the verbiage of some committee minutes will know the need for an interpreter. Although one hon. Gentleman has mentioned that journalists are skilled in local government, even then they need an interpreter of some of the minutes passed by local authorities. I believe that discussion will bring out these points. Although a member of a local authority, I feel no strain on my loyalty in taking part in this debate, and I still support the Bill unreservedly. But I would be less than fair if I did not say that I have canvassed opinion among many county and county borough councillors I know and have found that they are sharply divided in their opinions on the Bill. Many of those councillors are on my own political side of the fence, but I believe that this is not a political matter. The Bill cuts across the political atmosphere of this country and gets down to the fundamentals of administration and basic democracy. The councillors with whom I discussed the matter raised as their first fear that, despite the provisions made by my hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher)—who introduced the Bill so admirably—to prevent any abuse of privilege in respect of committees with delegated powers, they feel that the Press will get round this provision and will cover such items as, for example, the disciplining of an official, the domestic circumstances of a person appearing before a housing committee, or the preliminary negotiations over the sale or purchase of land. I believe, however, that there will be adequate safeguards under the Bill to ensure that the Press do not cover such items. Furthermore, I believe firmly that a new relationship of mutual trust and understanding will grow up between the Press and local government members, as is the case today with the courts of this country. Many of us know that the Press have almost limitless access to the courts and, as a result, although they are subject to the rule and law of contempt of court, on many occasions they have to exercise discretion. One small example of that is when witnesses appear in blackmail cases and their names and   addresses are voluntarily suppressed by the Press. I have been making some research on this point and I came across a leading article in The Times of two years ago which stated categorically: Under English law, newspapers have shown exceptional propriety in co-operating with the courts to secure its proper administration. I believe that there can be valuable cooperation between the Press and local government, and I commend this point to all hon. Members. I was interested in the point made by the hon. Member for Islington, North (Mr. Reynolds), which is the second fear I found among those who take part in local government. I believe this to be the more important one. It is the fear that deliberations of a committee would be either stifled or exaggerated with the Press present. We all know that party divisions are often not so sharp in committee, that common sense prevails, and that many people making their point sometimes join with their political opponents and even vote with them. There is a danger that if this Bill becomes law discussion will be stifled and councillors will be reluctant to speak. They will be frightened of being branded in their local newspapers as rebels, and whips will become more stringent in their activities at the committee level. They feel, too, that frank political discussions ought to be reserved for the ""show-ring"" of the council chamber. On the other hand, they fear that debate in committee might be exaggerated. They fear that every speech in committee will be a political one, made with one eye on the pencils of the reporters. I feel that these fears are themselves exaggerated and that after the first novelty of the Measure has died down things will settle down well and there will be a great degree of co-operation between the Press and local government. It is significant that where more enlightened local authorities have opened their doors to the Press, both in council chambers and committees, the experiment has worked well and the privilege has been withdrawn in only a few cases. I understand that a little while ago Darwin went into this question again, although it still allows the Press to attend committees. In one committee which was overcrowded, I understand  that the Press were sitting almost on top of the members of the local authority and that during the course of the committee proceedings they actually joined in the discussion. I cannot help having a certain sympathy with those Press representatives, having in my own career had to endure the tedium of debates in the local council. We often talk glibly about the freedom of the Press, but many of us could do much more to preserve it. I make no apology today for speaking on behalf of both the national and the local Press because it is becoming increasingly fashionable in this country to attack the Press. I know that a good case could be made against the gutter sections of the Press which print near-pornography, and do great disservice to their profession. However, by and large, the Press does a good job, often in adverse circumstances. We are faced with the fact that the freedom of the Press is rather ill-defined in this country. Nevertheless, without a free Press there will be innuendo, gossip and false accusation extending from this institution of Parliament down to parish council level. So I urge all hon. Members to sacrifice any prejudices they may have and to approach this matter as individuals. I believe that on the political plane the Bill can benefit all political parties, and the better reporting of local government we have, the more response we shall have from the public. Above all, I believe that the Bill can bring about a significant improvement in the relationship between the public and local government and, what is perhaps more important, a better understanding of local government which at the moment is rather sadly lacking. This is a change we should all welcome and so I recommend all hon. Members to support its Second Reading.
