gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome the opportunity of making my maiden speech in this debate as representative of the Garston constituency which is the largest in Liverpool, with an electorate numbering over 81,000. It is an electorate which contains many large industrial complexes, including the motor car industry, the rubber industry and the chemical industry, as well as the docks and Liverpool airport. The House will realise that Garston is an important part of Liverpool and of Merseyside. It will be my task in this House to bring to the notice of the House the problems that prevail in my constituency and indeed on Merseyside in general. I think it can be said that my consstituency is a mirror which reflects the situation throughout the country. Garston has within its boundaries lush areas of stockbroker belt housing; it also has huge council estates and also mean streets which are relics of the Industrial Revolution. It also has among the highest unemployment figures in that area. It contains some bad school and environmental problems. I believe that in that sense Garston reflects not only the position on Merseyside but the position throughout the county. The divisions of social and economic wealth are apparent within my constituency. None of the remedies, or indeed attempted remedies, so far put forward has removed the division which exists in my constituency. I shall be taking an early opportunity to question my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry on the high unemployment figures on Merseyside, which are over twice the national average. The debate on the Gracious Speech has centred on the steps to be taken to deal with the country's immediate problems. The immediate problems which face us arose from the industrial con-  frontation created by the provisions of the Industrial Relations Act. I must also mention the injustices which flowed from the Housing Finance Act, and I can claim that I played a leading part in my locality when taking action against that piece of legislation. It was not merely a question of the rents themselves, which were bad enough, but it was a question of dislocation and slowing down of the building programme brought about by that Act. The housing record of the Conservative Government on this issue does not bear examination. No wonder when the election was called they wanted to hide their policies behind a smokescreen of the miners' dispute. Indeed, that is not the only Conservative policy that does not bear examination in terms of the background to all our present problems. As one who left industry on 1st March, and as a shop steward for 20 years, I must say that this House and its parliamentary dialogue is all very new to me. But I must say how amazed I have been at some of the statements made in this debate about the Industrial Relations Act. It is obvious that the argument that this House is remote from reality in respect of that Act is not only theoretically but positively correct. Many of the remarks made in this debate by Conservative Members about the Industrial Relations Act, and indeed about industrial relations in general, display a complete lack of knowledge and understanding of industrial relations and of the way in which the Industrial Relations Act affects the mass of the working people. The Act created grave dislocation of industry—indeed, it created more problems than has any other piece of legislation connected with industry. It caused a schism to be created between management and labour the like of which has not been seen in earlier years. I had understood that the Act was to be introduced to deal with the growing power of trade unions in seeking to achieve decent wages and conditions for their members. In other words, the Government were intervening on behalf of the employing class against the working class of this country. In that sense it was right that the trade unions should feel irate about the situation and seek to oppose the measure as they did. Therefore, I shall welcome the efforts to remove   the Industrial Relations Act from the statute book and I shall back any steps aimed at allowing trade unions—as indeed any other bodies within our society—to conduct their own negotiations freely with the employers. In regard to the Housing Finance Act, I believe that my constituents will welcome the steps taken in the Gracious Speech to freeze rents. There are in my constituency two huge council housing estates, and the effect of the increases has already been felt among low-paid workers and also by the unemployed. The economic and social problems which exist in council estates need examination and will require the introduction of remedial measures in the near future. Ghettoes are being created in these areas, and this is what flows from unemployment, low wages and deprivations of all kinds. In this sense I know that my constituents will welcome the freezing of rents to enable them to meet the constant inflationary problems which they face every day. On the subject of prices, I feel that the intervention of the Government by appointing a Minister of Consumer Affairs—provided that the Minister is given teeth—will be a meaningful exercise by Government and will be beneficial to the very people whose plight I have outlined. I believe also that, with regard to the environment in this area, the steps being taken for the redistribution of our national wealth into the regions will enable us to overcome many of the problems in my constituency. Today, Opposition Members have been sermonising about how the problems should be overcome. However, this House should recognise that the previous administration had from 1970 to 1973 to introduce legislation to deal with the problems. None of their measures resulted in any movement towards resolution. The resolution of the problems does not lie in the course that the Conservative Government took. I hope that this Government will recognise that we have to have dramatic changes in our attitude towards the economy in the very near future. The problems about which we have heard today are endemic to the system in which we live. The conflict of interest in our society is not an abstract one. It is firm  and positive, and it arises from the fact that there are people who produce the nation's wealth and who rightly want to maximise their wages, and there are those who own the means of production who want to maximise their profits. Nothing said in this House about twisting and turning policies and putting forward legislation of the kind that we have seen so far will remove that central problem so long as we have a situation where 80 per cent. of the nation's wealth is controlled by fewer than 10 per cent. of the nation. All the social problems, deprivations and other difficulties of working-class people will remain, and it will be the responsibility of this Government, in accordance with the Labour Party's manifesto and the decisions of its annual conference, to see that the electorate are won over to the idea that no start can be made to redistribute the nation's wealth until we take that wealth into public control. It is nonsense to discuss the redistribution of wealth which we do not own or control. I want this Government to take firm steps in the near future to establish a policy of public ownership which will serve places such as Liverpool which over a very long period have been subjected to high unemployment and a desperate shortage of industry. In the past, no matter what sort of carrot or stick has been used to pressurise industry to go to such areas, the result has been the same: Merseyside's unemployment figure has remained twice the nation level. I shall be pressing this Government to introduce measures whereby in the event of private industry failing to go to areas of deprivation and high unemployment they will see to it that industries in the public sector are established there so as to overcome present unemployment problems and to ensure that people have the work to which they are entitled. I welcome the policies outlined in the Gracious Speech. I believe that they represent the first steps that we can take to bring the country back from the brink to which it was taken by the Conservative Government. However, unless the Government adopt a more positive attitude to the future and begin to attempt to alter the imbalance which exists in the economic power of the country, like every   other Government they will fail to achieve the measures for which they hope. At a very early stage, I hope that legislation will be introduced to deal with the port transport industry. This again is a major lifeline of Merseyside. We do not want to see further procrastination. We need a firm policy. Having worked in the port transport industry for 28 years, I consider that I have sufficient experience at least to assist the House in making the right decisions.
