gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am sure hon. Members will appreciate my somewhat nervous feelings in addressing the House for the first time. Since I was privileged to become a Member of the House, I, like other hon. Members, have been inundated by letters from men in the Forces  asking me to urge upon the Government the need for a speed-up of demobilisation. The tone of these letters has indicated to me the disappointment of the Service men at the present time. The men who have complained are men with experience and a high standard of intelligence who are fully conversant with the present demobilisation scheme. I have had repeatedly brought to my notice the tremendous waste of man-power which is taking place at the present time, and I feel that the Government, when the opportunity presents itself, will deal with this very important problem. While travelling home to my constituency I have on many occasions come into contact with various Service men and I have always encouraged them to discuss with me their problems, and particularly the problem of demobilisation. Six years of war is a long time. I am sure hon. Members appreciate the great sacrifices that were made during the war by the boys in the Army, the Navy and the Royal Air Force. I now feel that every step ought to be taken to speed up demobilisation in order that our Service men may return quickly home to their own firesides. It is extremely difficult to convince the men in the Forces that demobilisation cannot be speeded up. Vast numbers of Service men have been married during the war and they are looking to the Government to see that they are released from the Forces very soon. I hope that will be the case. Parents also have felt the strain, and are losing touch with their families. We all recognise the work that was done by the industrial workers and by the men in the Services during the critical period of the war. I have listened with interest to the various speeches in this Debate. I believe that the practical aspect of this important problem has been discussed, but there is one point that ought to be emphasised. It was the point mentioned by an hon. Friend behind me to the effect that, unfortunately, the Services have no organisation by means of which they can bring their point of view to the quarters that really matter. There are trade union organisations which can send deputations even to the House of Commons. They put the point of view of the various industrial workers, but, unfortunately, our Servicemen are not in that position.   I would like to know when the Government intend to develop the post-war Service scheme. I feel that, if they would submit their proposals and they were reasonable and attractive, they would tend to help in speeding-up demobilisation. I hope that they will give the matter their very serious consideration. I am very pleased to have this opportunity of addressing the House on behalf of the people, and particularly the Servicemen, who sent me here. I feel there is an urgent need for the speeding up of demobilisation. I am confident that the Government will do all that lies within their power to see that that is done.
