gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to second the Motion. I feel greatly honoured at having been allowed to second this Motion. Of course, I am nervous; and I specially need the indulgence which the House grants on this occasion because I am also making my maiden speech. I am very conscious that this is really an honour to my own constituency of Edgbaston and to the city of Birmingham, now the largest of our provincial cities. We who are native to Birmingham are very proud of the considerable contribution it makes to the progress and prosperity of our country. It is a city, too, with a great tradition of good local administration and social progress. It is not just a city of machines, although there are plenty of them, but of hardworking, warm-hearted men and women. I know, because all my life—all my working life until the last few months—I have been one of the thousands of weekly wage earners in the city of Birmingham. During her forthcoming visits to the countries of the Commonwealth and Empire, which are referred to in the Gracious   Speech, I am sure that Her Majesty the Queen will see many examples of the skill and crafts of Birmingham, in the machinery, the tools and equipment, the tractors, cycles and cars, which are a part of the contribution we make to those vital exports which are expressed in the Gracious Speech—even, possibly amongst them, the local souvenir which is rarely ""Made in Birmingham."" I know that we should all like to extend our gratitude to Her Majesty the Queen and to her husband the Duke of Edinburgh for undertaking this tour which will give our kinsmen overseas the happiness of receiving and welcoming so beloved a Sovereign. We shall all, I think, agree with that part of the Gracious Speech which refers to strengthening our national economy and linking it with the high standard of social services and stability of employment. These are interdependent. Whilst the Gracious Speech rightly places the first emphasis on the preservation of peace, I am glad, as we must surely all be, that so much of the legislation forecast is so largely concerned with the homes and the happiness of the people of this country. It is recognised, I think, that housing is the first of the social services. Good housing is the foundation which enables the fullest benefit to be obtained from all the other social services, and the success of the drive to build new houses now makes it possible to intensify slum clearance and to introduce measures which will encourage the repair and the modernisation of some of the older type of houses. I think that these proposals will be very welcome, especially in the industrial areas. Mr. Speaker, to me health is the next most important social service, and I should like to direct the attention of the House for a moment to one vital branch of the Health Service which presents a special challenge and a special opportunity at this time. I refer to the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis. I suppose there is no disease which has been responsible for greater human tragedy. Indeed, I know this to be so from the experience I have gained in the administration and operation of the tuberculosis service over a number of years. We must, and we can, remove the  fear of tuberculosis. From being the death sentence which it was so often thought to be, it has instead become a curable disease. Great strides have been made and the whole country is delighted with the dramatic fall in the death rate from this disease. I know the House will not wish me to encumber my speech with statistics, but the figures here prove my point. From 457 per million of the population in 1949, the death rate from tuberculosis fell last year to 240 per million—nearly halved. I am told that this year the figure will be even lower. Wonderfully satisfactory as this is, there is something even finer before us. The fact is that owing to our higher standard of living, improved housing, earlier diagnosis, the new anti-biotic drugs and the developments in chest surgery, we have reached a stage where we have an opportunity of eradicating this scourge entirely. But, of course, this will not be achieved unless we take the fullest advantage of our opportunity. Although considerable progress has been made in reducing the list of ascertained cases awaiting hospital treatment, this remains the immediate problem: We need more beds, more nurses and improved surgical facilities. It would help to make the most effective use of our existing hospital beds if we could provide some kind of hostel or intermediate accommodation for those who only need now limited supervision and, perhaps, some nursing. To illustrate, a recent survey in the Midlands showed that between 15 and 20 per cent. of the beds occupied came within this group; and this point of hostel accommodation, I noticed, was emphasised in last year's Report of the Central Health Services Council. The effort that is being made to fill these needs is, I am sure, what we all understand by the reference in the Gracious Speech to the maintenance of the high standards of the social services. If this is done, this dread disease will cease to be a problem within the lifetime of many of us in this House, an achievement in accord with the theme of the Gracious Speech, which is, surely, the progress and the happiness of the people of this country. I look back for a moment to the time when, as a young girl, the daughter of   an industrial worker, I had to begin to make my own way. The improvement which has since taken place in the social conditions has been a continuing process throughout the whole of that period, and the contributions which have made these developments possible have stemmed from many sources. I believe that these tremendous advances helped our people to withstand two major wars and the aftermath of war, and now they share, willingly, the sustained, even increased, productive effort that we are all making to continue that progress. I am a newcomer to this House, but I have already sensed the unity of the House on many measures—differing measures—which, perhaps, sometimes surprises the visitor here. I think the people will look to us for, and the House will show, that same fundamental unity in our determination to consolidate this social progress and to move steadily forward.
