gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like previous speakers, I crave the indulgence of the House in making my maiden speech. I represent Birkenhead, the constituency represented in many previous Parliaments by Mr. Percy Collick, whose gallantry in overcoming physical disability and personal tragedy will be known to many hon. Members. Birkenhead is one of the towns created by the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century, and it has all the characteristics that many such towns have, such as far too many slums and far too many slum schools, and with those go, as in the rest of Merseyside, a very high unemployment rate—very often around 5 per cent.—low average wages and an absolutely appalling situation in the field of apprenticeships.  At present, only about 10 per cent. of school-leavers in Birkenhead are able to secure apprenticeships, a figure only about one-third of what it was a few years ago. Therefore, I welcome the prospect under the new Government of regional planning and the special attention which will be given to industrial training. Much attention has rightly been given in recent years to the problem of the North-East. The problems of the North-West, and of Merseyside in particular, are no less and merit at least equal attention. Birkenhead has two main industries. The first is shipbuilding and the second is the dockyards. Therefore, the people of Birkenhead are doubly bound up in the problem of exports, first, as citizens of a country which is particularly dependent on exports and, secondly, as people deeply engaged in the actual mechanics of exports; and it is upon exports that I want to speak this evening—the problem of how to increase our exports. I speak on this problem not as an economist, but as one who has for many years been engaged in the practical business of exports. The Government will soon, I hope, give us further details of what they propose to do to encourage this country's exports. First, I want to say a word about the import surcharge. I think that it was essential to restrain imports in current circumstances. If imports had to be discouraged, then I think that an imports surcharge was the best way of doing it. Certainly, it is a better and more flexible way than a quota or licensing system. Nevertheless, there is no disguising that it can have an adverse effect on our exports, and, therefore, it must, as the Government have promised, be temporary. I say that it can have an adverse effect on exports for three reasons. First, there is the danger of retaliation. I speak here not of retaliation from Governments, although that is important, but of retaliation by customers. I know of one Commonwealth country, for example, where firms that import from us will be deprived of their import licences if they cannot export to us. Secondly, one silver lining in the cloud of manufactured imports was that it made   sedentary boards of directors taste the nip of export air and perhaps begin to understand the problems of exporting and what it is necessary to do to achieve exports. Thirdly, the surcharge must be temporary because of its probable effect on the delivery of exports. I want to say something about some of the factors governing the success of our exports. First, there is the question of price. Many firms find, or claim, that export sales are less profitable than home sales. This may be true of some, although in certain cases I suspect that they have not worked out their sums properly. Nevertheless, in cases where the problem is that of lower profitability from exports then I am afraid that the export rebate proposed by the Government, although it will have some slight influence, will not do the job necessary. I believe that far greater incentives will he required and, if necessary, amendment of international regulations will have to be secured to effect this. Secondly, there is the question of credit. We must review the credit facilities we provide and which are guaranteed by the Government. I am glad that the Government propose to do so. I sometimes feel that credit facilities, particularly those provided to what one might call ""marginal"" countries, make too narrow an assessment of the risk involved. The Chairman of the British Chamber of Commerce in Argentina wrote to The Times recently complaining about the status allotted to Argentina in British exports. I sometimes feel that the Brazilian default of 10 years ago has had too great an influence on thinking about credit in this country. In the 1964 review of the work of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, the Brazilian default is referred to no less than three times within about six pages. As a result, the subsequent performance of this country in Brazil has been very poor. Yet the subsequent history of other countries shows differently. The United States, Germany and Japan have all invested very large sums in Brazil and as a result are exporting very large quantities there. Our investment in Brazil is negligible as are our exports there. Of course, it is important in exporting to ensure that one will get paid. It will  not help solve our balance of payments problem or any other if we do not get paid for what we export. But I beg the Government to remember that, especially in this modern technological age, when we are exporting to a large extent—I hope that it will be an ever larger extent—highly technical products, that the man who makes the first sale is very likely to make the second, the third, and so on. The country that supplies the machinery is likely also to supply the raw materials and to go on doing so. I suspect that some of our failures in exporting have been due to the fact that we have been unwilling to make the first sale. What I have said, true as it is in general, is especially true in dealing with the developing countries, where the technical level is often so low that they have to continue on the basis on which they originally started. I hope that the Government, in looking at credit facilities, will take a less stringent and more realistic view of risk than has been only too characteristic in the past. They should also look at our commercial information services and the assistance provided to our exporters by embassies abroad. I very much welcomed and, indeed, enjoyed, the suggestion made by the hon. Member for Harrow, East (Commander Courtney) in a letter to The Times some time ago, in which he suggested that our ambassadors should no longer be called simply ""ambassadors"" but ""ambassadors and trade commissioners"". At any rate, that would help to get the priorities right. In almost every country with which this country has relations trade comes first and this should be the priority in the minds of our ambassadors to a far greater extent. I do not blame the people concerned. There is inadequate staffing of commercial services abroad. The result of this is lack of confidence among exporters in the services they can secure abroad. I repeat that I do not blame our people abroad. Very often it is a matter of inadequate staffing and priority given to these problems. In my travels I have often found that a British community, when an ambassador retires from his post, congratulates him on his work and refers to his travels throughout the country to which he has been accredited. I often wonder whether   perhaps a better measure of success might be the movement of trade during that period. I realise that this would be quite unfair. Trade depends on many other things than ambassadors, but it would be as fair a measure of ambassadorial success as the sort of measure provided now. Once when I visited a customer in a far-flung part of a far distant country he told me, ""We had the British ambassador here only last week—a very nice chap. But I have not the faintest idea why he came."" I think that ambassadorial peregrinations should have some point. The most important activity of our ambassadors should be the encouragement of British trade. Then there is the question of organisation. The Government propose to attempt to organise co-operative selling arrangements overseas. I welcome this and hope that it will succeed. I hope that they will attempt to avoid the danger of competition between firms which are represented by one selling agency overseas. They might also examine how far existing selling organisations of British firms abroad could be used to take on additional agencies and the sales of smaller firms which cannot afford to set up their own overseas selling organisations. This, in fact, is already done. It could be done with great benefit to our exports on a far wider scale however. The success of the Government will be judged on many counts, but in no activity will their success be more important than in exports, because on success in exporting British goods depends the future of our economy and our ability to solve the many social problems which we face.
