gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first occasion on which a maiden speech in this House has been delivered by an hon. Member for the Goole constituency. The constituency was created only in 1950 and since then it has been continuously represented by the late George Jeger who, prior to 1950, was the hon. Member for Winchester. The people of the Goole constituency were fortunate when George Jeger moved to them from Winchester, and for 21 years he gave them excellent service as a devoted constituency Member. I must be one of the few hon. Members of this House who never met George Jeger. However, in recent months I have come to know him posthumously through the high regard for him which is present throughout the constituency. No matter how much he was assailed in the storms of national politics, his dedication to his constituents remained undiminished. It is my good fortune to have inherited from him a constituency of uncommon geographic and economic variety. It is part of the West Riding of Yorkshire—here I claim a common background with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer—and includes one borough, one urban district, three rural districts, 38 parishes and no fewer than 19 internal drainage areas. The one borough is the town of Goole itself, proud of its position as the one port of the West Riding. It is more than 50 miles from the sea, yet it is a port for ocean-going vessels from all over the world. Goole stands at the confluence of the inland waterway system of the South Yorkshire area and the basis of its trade from the beginning has been the shipment of coal from the Yorkshire pits. In recent years there has been a declining demand for coal. We have also had the development of new coal shipment facilities nearer the sea at Imming-ham. This has contributed to a fall in Goole's trade, creating a cloud of uncertainty over the port. Yet there can be no doubt about the wonderful potential which exists because of Goole's position between, on the one hand, the industrial Midlands and the North, and, on the other, Continental Europe and Scandinavia. This is a potential which will be vastly increased with the coming of the M62 and M18 motorways. Yet the value of these new roads for the town of Goole will not be fully realised until there are also adequate road links within the borough itself, with more modern bridges along the road across the docks, with which many hon. Members may be familiar, and also until we have completed the southern bypass to take commercial traffic away from the town's main street. Public developments like these all require imaginative planning by Government Departments and by the borough council. Only such public works can invigorate the local economy and provide the extra work which is needed in the town. At present the unemployment rate in the Goole exchange area is 5·4 per cent., well above the national average, and this is despite the daily exodus of some thousands of Goole residents who work away from the town in Hull and Scunthorpe, in Doncaster and in York. Goole urgently needs an economic tonic, and I suggest that this can come only with a large-scale programme of public works in the locality. At the western end of the constituency is the urban district of Knottingley, a relatively prosperous town famous for its glassware industry and for the massive power stations at Ferrybridge overlooking  the Great North Road. Near the town, too, is the modern colliery at Kellingley. The unemployment rate of Knottingley is considerably below the national average yet the town still has urgent economic problems, for the presence of so much industry leaves many environmental problems which local authorities are manfully attempting, as far as they have the power, to tackle. Pollution in the atmosphere, pollution on the spoil heaps, pollution in the river and canal—these are all readily evident at Knottingley, and they exemplify the need for national policies which ensure that our prosperity is not bought at the price of physical dereliction. The third and most populous part of the constituency is the Thorne rural district, lying to the south of Goole and towards Doncaster. The ancient town of Thorne is a centre of traditional boat building, and the nearby growing community of Hatfield is a residential area for many who work in Doncaster. But elsewhere in the Thorne rural district the economy has been based soundly on the collieries, with Hatfields main pit at Stainforth, and Thorne pit at Moorends. The economic fortunes of the whole area are inextricably linked with the fortunes of the coalfield, and the closure of Thorne colliery since 1956 has left a great gap in the local economy which is now as wide as ever. On 10th May, 1971, there were in the area of the Thorne employment exchange, 1,124 people registered as unemployed out of a total work force of 9,597. It does not require a mathematician like me to point out that this represents an unemployment percentage three and a half times the national average. This chronic local situation is something which cannot readily be observed from the statistics put out by the Department of Employment. Those statistics merge Thorne in a travel-to-work area with two other employment areas, one of them the large Doncaster area, so that the weighted average of unemployment gives little indication of the true and severe position at Thorne. But that indication is only too clear in human terms to all those who know the locality well, especially at Moorends, which is a community which was created for the sole purpose of working in Thorne pit. With the closure of that colliery, the   community has been left high and dry. I am too young to have lived in the 'thirties when there was mass unemployment, but my experiences of the people at Moorends have shown me in quite clear, dramatic terms the demoralising and wasteful impact of unemployment. This problem could be solved at once by the reopening of Thorne colliery, where earlier technical difficulties have been solved at great expense. Yet, understandably, the National Coal Board is unable as yet to reopen the colliery in view of the present contracting demand for coal. I suggest to the House that the onus for getting a definite decision on the future of Thorne colliery rests not just with the National Coal Board but with the Department for Trade and Industry in drawing up a fuel policy which fully utilises Britain's indigenous reserves of fuel, and with the Department of Employment in seeking all ways to cut out waste of manpower. So long as there is even the remotest possibility that Thorne pit can reopen, other enterprises which might be attracted to develop in the area are reluctant to do so for fear that the available reservoir of manpower might at some time be drained away underground. I have dwelt at length on this economic survey of the constituency because the various problems described are precisely those which national economic policies must be designed to tackle. They are problems which to a large extent Goole shares with most of the Yorkshire and Humberside region. They are problems of dereliction and excessive dependence on old industries; problems of lack of growth, because very few of Britain's growing industries are located in the region; problems of under-utilised manpower, because labour-intensive industries are contracting and only capital-intensive industries like electricity generation are expanding rapidly in the locality. All these problems will grow unless there is Government intervention. Above all, the economic policies which are most suitable for the overheated economy of London and the Midlands are probably the most detrimental for the stagnant economy of Yorkshire. The West Riding, as typified by my constituency, needs a programme of public works such as that associated with the  name of Franklin Roosevelt. A New Deal must come to Yorkshire. I have little hope that traditional British economic policies can solve the problems facing us, for the heart of those policies has been the philosophy of laissez faire, of the freedom of the market place, where each individual is expected to fight for the best terms for himself. This approach can never cure the malaise of unemployment, and it is an insult to expect the unemployed man to thrive in conditions of economic freedom. What is more, so long as we leave it to individuals to fight for the best prices and the lowest costs and the highest wages just for themselves, it is no wonder that the pressure in the economy is all upwards. I believe that inflation such as we are now experiencing is an inevitable consequence of the free rein economy, and that seems to be the objective of present policies. So long as we attach primary importance to the individual units of society, to the individual trees of the forest, the wood as a whole will remain a disorganised mass and the lesser varieties of plants will be choked underneath. In our complex modern society there are so many interwoven branches between the individual trees that we cannot rely on the interest of the individual to coincide with what is best for the whole. In my time I have been employed by two of the great international companies and by one of our nationalised industries, and my experience with all of them has indicated the inadequacy of depending upon the interplay of the interests of the individual people involved in order to produce the best effects for the interests of the organisation as a whole. Enlightened self-interest may have been a reasonable doctrine for Edmund Burke in 1795, but is utterly out of touch with the reality of mass society in 1971. Similarly, the theory of the value of competition in a free market is hardly applicable in the modern situation, in which large companies which appear at first sight to be cut-throat rivals are more likely to be collaborators than competitors. There are two further inadequacies of the free enterprise system which render it incapable of solving the economic problems which I have described. Firstly, there is no provision in the free market   for protecting environmental amenities and for combating pollution. Few people will voluntarily pay to repair the damage done to the environment by their industrial activities. Secondly, a free-rein economy in our country takes no account of regional differences and of the need for different economic policies in different parts of the land. So long as we persist in a free market on a nation-wide basis, there will be an economic drift from the poorer to the richer regions. For all these reasons, I hold little hope that any of the economic problems of the Goole constituency can be tackled by simple adaptations of traditional policies. I have good reason to believe that a majority of my constituents are of like mind. What is necessary is nothing less than a real economic revolution, a phasing-out of the free-rein economy and a move towards community planning. This, for me, is the need for modern socialism in this country, socialism on a Christian basis. Man was not made to fit the mould of economic policies; but economic policies have to be found to increase the happiness and nobility of man. Until we are prepared for such a thorough reorientation of our policies, the basic economic problems which exist in the Goole constituency, throughout Yorkshire and throughout so much of this land will remain. I have been sent to this House in no doubt that I have come here because the people whom I represent want me to press for a radical solution to all these problems that they face, and I shall seek every possible opportunity of fulfilling that purpose.
