gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I would ask for the indulgence which the House always gives so generously to a Member making his maiden speech. I feel all the more hesitant about intervening in this Debate after hearing the Foreign Secretary's account of the appalling responsibilities which face him and which face the   statesmen of the world today. It is quite clear that as he surveys the present international situation, he must regard each problem as an essential part of a general pattern. The House does not need me to stress this point, but I do mention it because of the two problems to which I wish to refer today. I mention them because they play a part in that overall pattern—that pattern of foreign policy which has to be smoothed out in order to enable us to achieve the necessary balance and prospect of peace. The first subject to which I wish to refer is Austria, and I do so with some delicacy and hesitancy in view of what the Foreign Secretary had to say. But there are many Members, especially on this side of the House, who feel most anxious and most saddened by the refusal of the recent Conference to allow the prospect of the return of the South Tyrol to Austria. I well realise that the difficulties in satisfying Italian demands, or I should say in maintaining the life of Italy, are very great, but, nevertheless, I think we have a special responsibility towards Austria, because it was through our weakness in 1938 that Austria was overrun by Germany. I was in Berlin in those. painful days of February and March, 1938, and it was clear then unless a decisive word was spoken by this country Austria would be lost.—and Austria was lost. I therefore feel that we have a special responsibility for that unhappy country. If it were possible today to achieve a true federation of the world it would not be necessary to talk about returning bits of territory to one country from another, but that situation does not exist, and in those circumstances the old saying that if Austria had not existed it would have been necessary to create her, is still good today. I feel that it is in our interests, as well as in the interests of justice and right principles, that we should do our utmost to strengthen the position of Austria. The Foreign Secretary spoke movingly of the feeling that he and those of us on this side of the House have for our social democratic brothers in Austria. The Social Democrats in Austria are united with all parties in their request, their demand, for the return of the South Tyrol as being essential for the consolidation of Austria. I do not want to say more on that, except to mention that in so far as there is a pattern in our foreign  affairs, I believe that Austria is as important to our Middle East position as Italy, or any of the other countries which we are striving to support and encourage in these difficult days. I would like to refer to a matter which has not been discussed in this Debate. It is one which I and others believe to be of the greatest importance to international relations. It is the much discussed subject of the international control of atomic energy. There is, at least, some reason to believe that our earlier policy with regard to control of atomic power was one of the causes of Russian suspicion, that suspicion which the Foreign Secretary today said he is willing to attempt to allay. I do not propose to go into the rights or wrongs of the decision which was taken last year, because I believe that this country did attempt to give a lead to the world on the subject, and that when the; Prime Minister took the initiative in instigating the action which led to the declaration of November, 1943, that represented a genuine effort on the part of this country. The main point of that declaration, which stressed the need for international control of atomic energy, seems to have been forgotten here. We have lagged behind America, because in the last few months a very remarkable report has been produced by the American Lilienthal Committee. Their report seems to have escaped notice in this country, certainly official comment. There is good reason to believe that this report may be adopted by the American Government, and be put forward by their delegate to the U.N.O. Commission on atomic energy. It amounts to the first real proposal for international Socialism, and I know Members opposite will forgive me for calling it international Socialism, since one of them has just suggested a "" Cooperative Party "" for European nations. I am sure they will agree with the proposals in that report, that control should be effected, not by a mere system of inspection, but by international ownership of the main atomic production plants, as well as of the necessary raw materials. I believe these proposals are a remarkable advance towards that international cooperation for which we are striving. I think we all recognise that international rivalry, in economic as well as military affairs, is one of the main causes of fear   and suspicion. Historically, this has always been true, and it is just as true today. In fact, fear of the use of atomic weapons has heightened that rivalry, has made it more intense, so that the need for obtaining control over certain raw materials, which was part of the vicious circle which led to both world wars, applies just as much, if not more so, to those substances, uranium and thorium. Rich sources of those materials are to be found in relatively few parts of the world, and I believe that by allowing this vital problem to be solved on a national competitive basis there may result tensions of such a nature that the world may be threatened without any overt action or any deliberate action of power politics on the part of any country in the world. The Lilienthal report, which I have not time to discuss in detail today, suggests that international control of atomic energy would not be possible as a result of a mere system of inspection. The report urges that if an international agency can be set up, which will be engaged in its development and operation, it will be able, far better than a national system, or system of pure control, to discharge the proper functions of safeguarding the world's future by safeguarding its fears of the use of the atomic bomb. It has therefore been proposed, in this report, that an international agency should be set up with express jurisdiction to conduct all intrinsically dangerous operations in the field of atomic energy. That means all activities relating to raw materials, the construction and operation of production plants, the conducting of research and the making of explosives. It is possible to allow a large measure of atomic energy research, and the use of atomic energy for power, to be handled and developed by national agencies, provided that certain dangerous operations are controlled and owned by this international authority. I believe that in this plan lies the most fruitful prospect for the future. In it I can see one of the few opportunities for positive action towards peace that lie in front of us today. If we adopt these proposals, if we can give them encouragement, there is a positive line of international development. I believe that the setting up of a sort of super-national authority would represent a definite step towards that world federation which many of us believe to be in-  evitable, and the only possible future for the nations of the world. I should therefore like to ask that the Government should make some statement on their attitude towards this report. I believe it is vital that the whole world should know where we stand in the matter, and I also think that such a gesture would be of the greatest significance in the present world situation. I am so convinced of this that I earnestly pray that we will strive as hard as we possibly can, by publicising our attitude and by working for it, to create some sort of organisation such as is proposed by the Lilienthal Report, because that will represent the first tangible sign of an effective United Nations organisation, and it will then take a concrete form in which the Powers who today seem to be in such a sorry state of disagreement can find a real measure of common ground. I conclude by quoting from the introduction written by the distinguished board of consultants who produced the report:  We have concluded our deliberations on this most difficult problem, not in a spirit of hopelessness and despair, but with a measure of confidence. … It is worth contrasting the sense of hope and confidence which all of us share today with the feeling which we had at the outset. The vast difficulties of the problem were oppressive, and we early concluded that we could only make recommendations and stress the limitations of the proposals, but, as we steeped ourselves in the facts and caught the feel of the nature of the problem we became more hopeful. That hopefulness grew not out of any preconceived "" solution "" but out of a patient and time-consuming analysis and understanding of the facts that throw light on the numerous alternatives that we explored. So, five men of widely different backgrounds and experiences who were far apart at the outset found themselves, at the end of a month's absorption in this problem, in general agreement. That Committee say that they believe that others may have a similar experience if a similar process is followed and a similar determination shown. I believe that this is a message of hope to the world, and that the experience of the men who produced that report may be of value not only because it provides a practical solution to the most serious problem that confronts us in international affairs today, but also because that approach may ultimately enable others to tackle the problems that face us throughout the world and enable them to be solved in the same way that   this problem of atomic energy can be solved, provided we make up our minds to base our decisions and our actions on the United Nations Organisation
