gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would like to crave the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech. For the past three weeks I have been inundated with well-meaning advice about when I should make my maiden speech and how I should deliver it. Some advised me to leave it until after the Recess and others told me to get it done before then. Having listened to all that advice, however, I thought it only fitting that I should pay my humble tribute to the greatest steel city in the world— namely, Sheffield—and also to the works of John Summers and Sons, near Chester, where I spent 16 very happy years. I decided that as a tribute to those two, I would make my modest contribution on the important subject of steel, which I love very much. One of the things which I have been trying to do in the last few days is to   take stock and wondering how I came to be in the House of Commons. I believe that no man is self-made and that we are all subject to the influences of our colleagues, the way of our upbringing and the localities in which we have been brought up. One of the greatest assets which I have had was to be blessed with a fine Socialist father. He was one of the few truly practising Socialists that it has been my privilege to meet. When he passed away 12 years ago, I spent the following 12 months trying to examine his life and his philosophy. I realised that he was one of the happiest men I had ever known. The reason for this was that he believed that the philosophy and purpose of life were to give whatever talents we have in the service of our fellow men. That is the main reason why I stood for election and have come to this House, to give whatever talents and abilities I have in the service of my constituency and of my fellow men. I can do no better than to quote from the Bible a very famous verse which, I would suggest, every Member of Parliament should use as his yardstick to measure the motive of his contribution to any topic: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and though I have the gift of prophecy, so that I could remove mountains, and have not love, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. I believe that if our actions and our observations are based on respect and love for our fellow men our contributions will be worth while. I am probably one of the luckiest Members of Parliament in having a constituency known as Brightside. I found this a great comfort to me; for when we have our political ups and downs, and as we talk of swings against or for us, I can always say, ""I look on the Brightside"". I think that this name typifies the people of the constituency. One of the things I found when I was going round during my election campaign was that the elder people not only saw the difficulties and the problems but they appreciated that, in any human balance sheet there are blessings and advantages. One of the things I appreciate about this Sheffield constituency is the great warmth of character of the people. In-  deed, I should like as a Welshman to pay tribute to them. I am sorry that there are no Welsh Members now in the Chamber. I think that there is a lesson to be learned here. As a Welshman, I know I have been taken to the heart of the people of Brightside. My experience of life is that people in Brightside, in Caerphilly, in Scotland, are basically the same under the skin: they have the same hopes and fears wherever they may be throughout the length and breadth of this country. I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor, Dick Winterbottom, who passed away rather prematurely at the age of 68. Dick Winterbottom, I found during my campaign, was a name that was known very well on every doorstep in Brightside. He represented the constituency for 18 years. He moved his home from Oldham and went to live right in the middle of the constituency and he shared the joys and sorrows of his constituents. His door was always open to them so that they could take their problems to him. I was very touched at the great tokens of affection which were shown to him whenever people talked about him. Indeed, more than one said to me, ""If you are half the man Dick Winterbottom was you will do all right"". I hope to prove more than half the man in due course, but I should like to pay that tribute. Also, when I came here and talked to my hon. Friends I found that they spoke with great affection of him and of his contribution to the work of this Chamber. I should like to touch on the position in the steel industry prior to nationalisation. The hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Lane) suggested that there had been a very high degree of success in private enterprise in the steel industry. I would remind the House that, in those years when the steel bosses were taking considerable profits out of the industry, if one stuck a stamp on anything and called it steel one could sell it—up to about five years ago. I believe the hon. Member is misleading the House and misleading himself in feeling that private enterprise in the steel industry could cope with the present situation in the world market. Indeed, if we look at the position from the middle 1950s to date, we shall find that because of the negligence of the private steel companies the   price advantage which we had over our European competitors in the middle 1950s has disappeared. If we look at the production per man at work we shall find that we have been outpaced and outstripped by Japan and also our European competitors. It was highly significant that, just prior to nationalisation, the Steel Board instigated a report, known as the Benson Report, which is basically what the British Steel Corporation is advocating for the 1970s. I am convinced that if its views had been implemented much sooner the position of the steel industry in this country would not be as bad as it is today. Therefore, when the Steel Corporation took over some 12 months ago it did so in a period of great difficulty, and also, as my hon. Friend says, in the wake of a difficult political conception. But I am glad to say that the offspring, the British Steel Corporation, 12 months later is a really thriving, bouncing organisation. I would endorse what has been said about the welcome to Lord Melchett, who is back in harness, and I sincerely trust that he will soon be fully recovered. I believe that the British Steel Corporation has laid the foundations for a highly efficient, a highly profitable, a highly productive and a highly remunerative industry and that in the next few years we shall see the fruits of this initial careful planning. I should like to mention one or two points to which I believe the Government and the British Steel Corporation should address their minds. We have heard that production in the first half of this year is 5 per cent. up on what it was in the first half of last year, and indeed, in the second quarter it is up by 8·7 per cent. I believe that the conservative attitude of the private companies to the export market is one of the reasons why our export performance is not anything like as good as our import performance has been. In ten years the export increase has been something like 30 per cent. whereas our import performance alas has been something like 63 per cent., which is not a good reflection on the private industry. I believe we must use all the machinery available to us now and that we must be ruthless in our attitude to,  selling abroad. One of the attitudes of the private companies was, ""To remain profitable, to give our shareholders the dividends they want, we can only afford to carry 10, 15, 20 per cent. in the export market."" I believe that this philosophy should go now, and that the British Steel Corporation should use every means within its power to push its export performance to its full potential. On the question of long-term planning, I believe there is a great acceptance now in the steel industry, in the British Steel Corporation and the trade union movement, that if we are to remain competitive it is absolutely essential that we have low-cost production units and that we produce not less steel but more steel, and I believe that the plan which will be announced in the next nine months or so, when implemented, will give us the production growth we so badly need. However, unfortunately, due to technological change and reorganisation, one thing we must be prepared for is a reduction in manpower. The British Steel Corporation must be made responsible for the people whom it will not require in the main steel production units, and should not be satisfied on giving a redundancy payment and saying, ""There is the dole queue"". The Government and the British Steel Corporation must accept responsibility for the deployment of manpower not required in the technological steel industry. To this end I suggest.that the British Steel Corporation should diversify its activities and consider going into the manufacture of durable consumer goods. If they do this, as contractions in a particular locality occur, then they can with Government help implement suitable alternative industries for those workers who will be made redundant. I would mention worker participation in the industry. I was privileged to be one of the twelve part-time directors appointed to the British Steel Corporation. Reluctantly, as I was looking forward to this new challenge, I had to resign, even before I sat on my first board meeting. I have great faith in this experiment in the steel industry, which I am sure will gather momentum and become established in all nationalised industries and, I hope, in private industry. I am greatly impressed by the 11 people who have been appointed; they have a   wonderful contribution to make. I am glad to say that the more established directors in the British Steel Corporation have been very patient and kind to the worker directors. The worker directors have received five weeks' training in economics and allied subjects, and I have every faith that this will prove a successful experiment. With dynamic and imaginative management; with the co-operation of the quarter of a million workers, one of whom it was my privilege to be for 16 years: with the moral, verbal support and economic understanding of the Government and of this House, then I believe that the Steel Corporation and the steel industry have a bright future. I take this opportunity of wishing the British Steel Corporation as it comes to celebrate its first birthday many happy returns, and I know that its future will be prosperous. Those sentiments will I am sure be endorsed by the House.
