gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a great honour to be called today to speak as the representative for the new constituency of Gainsborough and Horncastle. Eighty per cent. of the constituency was represented in the last Parliament by Sir Marcus Kimball. In the few weeks that I have been in the House I have yet to meet a Member on either side of the House who disliked Sir Marcus. His natural charm and relaxed manner belied his steely determination, as many Opposition promoters of Private Members' Bills know to their cost. About 20 per cent. of my new constituency was represented in the last Parliament by my hon. Friend the Member for East Lindsey (Mr. Tapsell) to whom I should like to pay tribute. I suspect that I shall never be able to match his economic expertise, but I shall certainly try to match his devotion to constituency work. I am fortunate indeed to represent about 700 square miles of historic Lindsey in Lincolnshire, stretching from the banks of the River Trent across the fertile Lincolnshire plain to the wolds, one of the most beautiful parts of England. As well as about 170 parishes the constituency contains four towns—Gainsborough, which has been an industrial town and port for centuries, the racing town of Market Rasen—I am glad to see that my hon. Friend the Member for Crawley (Mr. Soames) is aware of the existence of the racing town of Market Rasen — the ancient Roman town of Caistor and the lovely market town of Horncastle. All those towns are heavily dependent on agriculture, a subject in which I intend to take great interest during this Parliament. But Lincolnshire is known for something else. All over the county lie the airfields—many of them now disused —of RAF Bomber Command. It was a moving moment for me when I came across a memorial at one of the airfields which said simply this: Royal Air Force Wickenby No. 1 Group Bomber Command 1942–1945. In memory of 1,080 men of 12 and 626 Squadrons who gave their lives on operations from this airfield in the offensive against Germany and the liberation of occupied Europe. Per Ardua Ad Astra.   It is a sobering thought for people of my generation who were born not only after the war but in the second half of this century that on some nights during the war more men failed to return to Lincolnshire from one raid over Germany than were killed during the entire Falklands war. I should like to pay tribute to those men. Of course, during the 1930s many of those men were debating these issues as we are debating them today. Many of my generation are as concerned as young people were concerned in the 1930s about what they see as a continuous accumulation of weapons of mass destruction. But I believe that in the past two years my generation has again relearned the history of our times and has once again concluded that the peace movement is not that; it is the disarmament movement. As Mr. Churchill said on 19 March 1936: False ideas have been spread about the country that disarmament means peace. Disarmament does not mean peace. Appeasement, as Harold Macmillan said, is the father of war. In a few months we shall celebrate an important anniversary. Fifty years ago the historic East Fulham by-election took place in which a Conservative pro-defence spokesman was defeated by a disarmer. Indeed, he lost a 14,500 majority. During that campaign the then leader of the Labour party, Mr. George Lansbury, said that if he were dictator he would close every recruiting station, disband the Army, dismantle the Navy and dismiss the Air Force. The right hon. Member for Blaenau Gwent (Mr. Foot) did not go quite as far as that, but if his policies had been carried, if the British electorate had been so foolish as to accept them as it accepted the policies of George Lansbury in 1933, peace might indeed have been put at risk. Is it not strange that the right hon. Gentleman has learned so little and forgotten so much? Has he forgotten his own words, written under the name of Cato in ""Guilty Men"" published in 1940, when he wrote: The Labour Party went through all the antic motions of resisting militarism. This consisted of adopting pretty well every half-baked disarmament proposition and annually voting against the Service estimates. Individuals and even groups of fools and fanatics were either for peace at any price or war without weapons. Has the right hon. Gentleman learned nothing? Has he forgotten everything? I hope for the sake of the future of our nation that the Labour party will heed the words not of its official defence spokesman here today but of the right hon. Member for Birmingham, Sparkbrook (Mr. Hattersley). Writing this week in that organ of the ""Tory gutter press"" The Guardian, he said: If we are to respect and trust the people we must begin to listen to their opinions on the policy which lost us most votes at the last election—defence and disarmament. The right hon. Member for Sparkbrook was telling the truth, that the defence policies of the Labour party played a significant part in losing it the election. I agree with the right hon. Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Callaghan) that unilateralism as an issue is dead I suspect that as those right hon. Gentlemen go to bed tonight they may think, ""Who will rid us of the pestilential priest of CND?"" Those of us who played some small role in ensuring that CND's arguments were defeated can now turn to more interesting subjects. One topic raised in that significant  debate of the Church of England Synod caused concern to many. Men of sober mind accept the need for deterrence, given the fact that these weapons cannot be disinvented, but there is genuine concern about our policy of first use which I accept is necessitated by the discrepancy in conventional forces in Europe. That is not denied. That discrepancy is highlighted again and again in the statement. While I do not call for the dismantling of the British Army of the Rhine, which I accept is a necessary trip-wire, I believe that it is unlikely that the 50,000 men of that army could have any more impact on the outcome of a continental battle fought by 2 million or more men than did their forebears of British Expeditionary Forces in 1914 and 1940. If we are to strengthen the conventional deterrent, we must strengthen those aspects where we are traditionally strongest — the defence of the United Kingdom home base, the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force. I am sorry that the right hon. Member for Down, South (Mr. Powell) is not here. He drew an interesting scenario when he asked what would happen if the Continent was overrun by a successful Soviet conventional attack. Would the Prime Minister then try to turn back or resist the attack by unleashing a nuclear holocaust? He was right to say that it is unlikely that the Prime Minister would press the button. However, I take issue with him, because if we did not have an independent nuclear deterrent, could not the Soviets demand our surrender in exactly the way that the Americans demanded the surrender of Japan in 1945—because they possessed weapons that we did not possess? The right hon. Gentleman's logic is at fault. Let us act where we are strongest. Let us not fall into the trap that we fell into in 1914 and 1945, of weakening our home defences. I realise that those pitfalls will be apparent to Ministers. I know that they are committed to the preservation of a word that is perhaps the most abused in the English language, which the Kremlin defines as being attainable only by uniformity, but which we have always sought to sustain by encouraging all nations in Europe to follow their own destinies. That word is ""peace"". I am confident that the statement will make peace more probable.
