gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a very great honour to address this Committee for the first time. As a very new Member of this House, may I say that, however much I may disagree with certain aspects of the Budget, I certainly never hope to hear a more lucid and interesting presentation of the national accounts than that to which the Chancellor treated us last Tuesday. I very much agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Flint, West (Mr. Birch), who said that it was no good thinking of the inflationary gap as something static. It is a fallacy to think that one could ever  take still life photographs of the national economy at any particular moment, and in this connection I should like to put a question to the Chancellor about his Budget speech. I read very carefully the paragraphs relating to the inflationary gap. When the Chancellor estimated private savings for the coming year at £170 million, did he take into account the effects of the increased taxation which he is imposing? It seems to me that the effect of the new taxes added together, must be to cause a certain amount of dissaving. I noticed also that the right hon. Gentleman said that, in his opinion, there would be no increase in personal savings during this year. I should have thought that there was almost bound to be some decrease because of the rising cost of living, and that seems to be the view of the right hon. Gentleman, if one compares the figures given in his speech with those in the Economic Survey. I should like to say a few words about the size of the Budget. Despite what has been said by hon. Members opposite, I am sure that we on this side of the Committee are right in saying that the size of the Budget today is in itself inflationary. It is not only the case that high taxation stimulates wage demands, but there is also the point that a swollen Budget means that there are many salary-earners who are not making any contribution to the total national production. This is not a new point, as it was made in the debate on the cost of living last November, when my hon. Friend the Member for Chippenham (Mr. Eccles), in answer to the hon. Member for Stechford (Mr. Jenkins), said: …the size of the Budget affects the proportion of the people of working age who are on unproductive jobs; if we reduce the size of the Budget, we most certainly increase the number of people who are producing goods to get into the shops.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 7th November, 1950; Vol. 480, c. 793.] That seems to me to be an important point when the total volume of national production matters, as it does today, almost more than ever before. As to the argument, which is also a familiar one, that a very large Budget does not really matter because so much of the revenue raised is used to effect re-distribution of income, many economists, including a number of Socialist economists, have, at one time or another, emphasised the danger of reaching a point   where taxes no longer have a real re-distributive effect. In this connection, I am not going to quote Colin Clarke, because I know he has always been a bit of a wobbler from the point of view of hon. Members opposite; I certainly would not expect a writer, whose views are quoted with approval by Professor Hayek, to be acceptable to them. But let us take Mr. E. F. Schumacher who is, so far as I know, a perfectly orthodox Fabian. I dare say many hon. Members besides myself read with interest and profit a collection of essays published by Blackwell's some years ago called ""The Economics of Full Employment."" The general tone of that book was decidely Left Wing, as I am sure hon. Members who have not yet read it will gather, when I say that Mr Worswick and Mr. Balogh were contributors. But in the contribution to that volume on the subject of public finance, Mr. Schumacher used these words: The high income tax imposed for the purpose of re-distribution is subject to the law of diminishing returns in more senses than one. It leads to a situation in which every item of expenditure that can be booked over expense account is automatically subsidised by the State at the rate of standard tax. The more progressive the scales of taxation, the smaller, at the same time, is the reward obtainable by business-men for extra effort and risk-taking. In a free society, the limits of taxation deserve the closest study. I believe that we have now reached that stage, and, furthermore, that those words illustrate a very important point which is often made by hon. Friends of mine on this side of the Committee, namely, that we can never achieve economic efficiency if the financial policy of the Government encourages and even subsidises disrespect for the law. There is one other point about the size of the Budget which I wish to make. We are often told that the real object of my right hon. and hon. Friends is to deflate the economy to below the level of full employment. That charge, of course, is absolutely untrue. There is absolutely no intention on this side of the Committee to use unemployment as a weapon to reduce the bargaining power of the unions. My hon. Friends will agree that in normal times, at least, it is a sure sign that a sound financial policy is being followed that any increase in the value of national production should be accompanied by some rise in real wages. I want to say a word or two about the new taxes that are being imposed. First of all, I want to say something which is really non-controversial. On the question of dentures and spectacles, I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will cast a kindly eye on the suggestion in ""The Times"" on Saturday last, by the information officer of the Association of Optical Practitioners, to the effect that the charge on all spectacles should be exactly the same. It seems to me rather unfair that old people who suffer from cataract should have to pay more for their spectacles because of the very elaborate convex lenses they need. I believe I am right in saying that pebble lenses, which have, in many cases, to be imported from abroad, for people who are extremely short-sighted, are very expensive. Again, it seems a little hard that they should have to pay more than a common or garden myope like myself who coasts along quite happily with a prescription of minus 2.25. I should also like to say a word or two on the subject of the Profits Tax. To my mind, this tax does not really fulfil its object of penalising all dividend increases, because the companies which are going to suffer most severely are those which have to provide for a very high proportion of preference stock carrying a fixed interest. It is those companies which will find it hardest to maintain the present dividend on their ordinary shares if this increased rate of tax is imposed. It also means that more businesses will emigrate overseas, and will seek foreign registration. I have read a great many comments on the Budget over the week-end, as, I am sure, many hon. Members have done, and I have noticed that nearly everybody has paid compliments to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I admit that the compliments in ""The New Statesman and Nation"" were of a rather pale kind, but they were compliments none the less. Everybody has said what a fine performance he gave us, but at the same time there has been a noticeable note of interrogation. People have been saying, ""Where do we go from here?"" Whoever presents next year's Budget will have to contend with a greater budgetary strain. I have already expressed the opinion that the size of the Budget is inflationary, and it   is not sufficient for hon. Members opposite to go on drawing attention to the high prices of imported commodities, because the very fact that world forces are affecting the price level makes it more important than ever that we should pursue a sound financial policy at home. On the question of taxation, I wish to make two suggestions. The first is that we should try to make the system of high indirect taxation more progressive than it is at present. We have to accept high indirect taxation, but could we not try to differentiate, not merely between luxury articles and necessities, but between different grades of particular articles? Thus I rather regret that the Purchase Tax on all wireless sets is to be doubled, because the simple plug-in set is a great solace to many elderly people. But if anyone wants an expensive wireless set which has a sort of prestige value, then it seems to me that is something for which he can reasonably be asked to pay a higher rate of tax. I also agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Aberdeenshire, East (Mr. Boothby), who comes very near to making the ""News of the World"" my regular reading, when he suggests that there should be a differentiation in the rates of tax on earned and unearned incomes higher up the scale. In any event, unless we grapple courageously with the financial implications of our re-armament programme, we shall run a serious risk of undoing that work of post-war reconstruction, in which not only the authors of this year's ""Economic Survey,"" but also hon. Members in all parts of the Committee take such pride.
