gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful for the opportunity to say a few words, and I hope that I may claim the indulgence of Members for this, my first, effort in this House. I cannot claim, like the previous speaker, that I have waited for 20 years to get my piece across, but I have been particularly concerned, for a longer period than 20 years, with the subject to which I am going to refer. I think that we all appreciate that this proposal, which the House is now discussing, is most revolutionary, and one which was encouraged and requested from this side of the House for many years. I want to make a special plea for the ambulance services. I have been a member of a local authority for a great number of years, like many other Members  in this House, and I remember the days, particularly the old days of the boards of guardians, when anyone who could drive a horse was engaged to be an ambulance driver. That did not apply only to one part of the country. In many places, that was the practice in those days. I agree that, since the passing of the Local Government Act, 1929, when the guardians went out of existence so far as the county boroughs were concerned, there has been a great improvement in the ambulance services. But there is plenty of room for further improvement. I have believed, for many years, that we have never placed a real and true value upon the ambulance services. I have known people who have been appointed without any experience, knowledge or qualifications as ambulance drivers, and many of them are doing that work today. Those are not the type of people we want to be bound up with this Measure. If it was right during the war to nationalise the fire services, with a view to saving life, surely there cannot be anything wrong in nationalising the ambulance services. I understand that, in many towns, that was effectively done under one regional control, and that Plymouth had a very fine ambulance service during the war. There is, however, a danger under this Measure. Clause 27 allows local authorities to retain the authority to control the ambulance services. This gives those authorities the right to employ contractors to do the work instead of having it done by an experienced and qualified ambulance service. In private practice there have been cases where a private car was used as an ambulance, and was not fitted for the job, and had no particular equipment. A youth whose hands were thick with oil and grease has been sent to remove patients from a house to a hospital. I think that that is a practice that ought not to be encouraged at all. I am perfectly satisfied that the Minister, if he will only look at this matter, will realise its importance, in the saving of life, because we are convinced that inadequate ambulance services for many years in many parts of the country have been responsible for loss of life. We can safeguard against that, if the Minister will only agree to take the same view of the importance of the ambulance services, as he is taking of the medical and hospital services.   Other people in this House are more concerned with the buying and selling of medical practices. My object in saying these few words is to ask the Minister to have a look at this question, with a view to bringing about a unified ambulance service, under the control of the regional authority which is to be responsible for the hospitals. We shall be grateful if he will do so and the public at large could appreciate the fact that at last this Government have appreciated the value of the Cinderella of the health services in this country.
