gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am afraid I do not understand the Opposition in their attempt to be real so far as this discussion is concerned. I have to confess that I am looking at this question from the standpoint of bitter personal experience as a trade union official. I want to be helpful, but my experience leads me to say, very definitely, that I have yet to find a group of employers who are sincere for the welfare of their   workpeople. I say that as one who has been unemployed. I have queued up when it was impossible to obtain work. I have tried to help local authorities to find work for the unemployed. We have to admit what was said yesterday by the right hon. Member for Aldershot (Mr. Lyttelton). The conditions were such that we had to find work, and when we found it we had to allocate it so that no one worked for longer than 13 weeks. At the expiration of that period, he was discharged, to give some one else a chance of working and getting stamps on his employment card. I candidly confess that many of these jobs lasted longer than they would otherwise have done owing to the fact that there would be no further work when they ended. With that experience, I have to ask myself if this suggested spurt, to try to find work, is going to be for a period of five or 10 years. What is going to happen at the expiration of that period? When I look into the field of amalgamation, I find myself in this unhappy position. Everyone can quote cases of firms amalgamating, and it would be correct to say that some of the staff have been compensated, but so far as the ordinary workers are concerned they have been given their cards and have had to queue up at the labour exchanges. The years of service which they may have rendered to their firms are of no account. On the other hand let me point out the effects of amalgamation. The head of the great firm of Boots, speaking in the House of Lords on 27th July, 1944, made this statement regarding amalgamations: My own firm, if it wanted to, during the past 20 years could probably have put all the chemists out of business, but it would not have been right and it would not have helped employment. It is a thing that you just do not do. But what is our actual experience of this firm? We have known it to work without the slighest idea of the welfare of other chemists. We have known it to purchase a site as near as possible to some other chemist and put him out of business by unfair competition. We face the position today, which was put by Lord Beaverbrook also in the House of Lords, that four firms in this country in prewar conditions decided the price of meat every day. I have to ask the right hon. Member for West Bristol (Mr. Stanley) how can we get out of working men's heads the ideas which result from a position  like this. He was referring to controls, but what are the controls in England today to which he never referred? The worker is in this unfortunate condition; he knows that the control of the cotton trade is in the hands of two firms in this country, J. and P. Coats, Limited, and the English Sewing Cotton Company. When we come to aluminium he knows that only one firm in this country controls aluminium and its price, and that is the British Aluminium Company. Tinware is controlled by one group, the Metal Box Company, and as far as soap and margarine are concerned, the worker knows that these are controlled by the great Lever combine who force the people to pay the price they fix. The worker also knows that his sugar is controlled by one firm, Tate and Lyle Ltd., and when we come to paper for household decoration he knows that the great combine in Lancashire, the Wall Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., control that industry. As regards artificial silk there are only two firms—Courtaulds and British Celanese. What the worker knows and what I would ask the right hon. Member for West Bristol to realise is that in the cotton industry the cotton is picked abroad, brought to this country and sent to Lancashire, but before it is made into shirts and sold to the buyers there are 15 groups who must get a profit out of it. Is the right hon. Gentleman going to tell the workers of this country that that is a state of things which ought to exist. Very definitely, there is a huge combine in the electricity industry which was formed just a few months ago. Directors released from their directorships were compensated by sums of£33,000 each, and were found improved financial positions with the new combine. I would also ask the right hon. Gentleman to take a note of this. I have found that the workers in many cases are afraid of inventions. 1 have in front of me a page taken from the weekly journal of the Master Builders' Association called ""The Builder,"" which deals with new inventions for the trade. Anyone can see this new machine working in the London Brick Company's works on the way from Euston to Carlisle. I had better read the statement in this advertisement: Conservation of man power and of fuel. One example is this one man operated excavator which can dig 10 tons at a bite—replacing 530 men. Every time the bucket is filled, one ton of fuel is saved.   That machine is operated in two or three of the works belonging to the London Brick Company. Another thing I want to ask the right hon. Gentleman to think about is this—the fixing of piecework prices in various industries I say very definitely there are a few firms who are genuine and who do control the period which is fixed for piecework prices. They will allow a price to run for a period of three months and then they will accept it. But there are others who try to follow the American methods. They bring a piece of work into one of their departments, and offer the worker a sum of money to produce that particular article in a given time. When he has produced it, they go to another operator and say, ""We paid 5s. for the production of that article. It has been done in an hour. If you can produce it in less than an hour, there will be 7s. 6d. for you."" That method will be followed in that firm until they find out what they consider should be the average time to produce that article. Then we reach that state of affairs in which with similar work it is not a case of piecework rates, but so many articles per hour or per shift, as the case may be, at the hourly rate of wages. I now direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for West Bristol to the building industry or the civil engineering industry. In the building industry 63,000 registered builders come under Defence Regulation 56B. I suggest in all seriousness, as one who has worked in the industry, that no one would go into it except out of sheer desperation. Amenities are unknown, as they have never been introduced, and I believe it will be necessary for the Government to compel employers to introduce amenities. One of the practical difficulties we have to face in that industry is that the majority of those 63,000 firms are one-man businesses or at most do not employ above a dozen work people. My allegation applies to the few big firms in the country, which go to jobs which might last 18 months to two or three years. Consider a foundry works. A wife is afraid of her husband coming home because she knows that the whole household wall be disturbed by the dust which he brings in on his clothes. No sensible parent today wall attempt to put  his son as an apprentice into the moulding industry, and I say that with regret. Just as a miner advises his son never to go into the mines, a moulder will say to his son, ""If you want hard and unhealthy work, with plenty of sweat and not much money, be a moulder, but if you have any sense go into a different industry."" I believe that if the Essential Work Orders were removed, large numbers of men and women would leave the badly paid industries in which they are working, industries which also have very few amenities. In many industries, holidays are given with pay, and we are now extending the one week to two. I would like to quote the case of a Mr. Cunningham who was responsible for starting a holiday camp in the Isle of Man. It was for working men and women, and it was a huge success. It is true that it was rough until a few years ago, but it was cheap. Now, Mr. Cunningham has sold to a company. Before the war, a stay at Douglas Camp cost£2 5s. 6d. a week for the lower grade holiday, and£2 9s. for the better grade holiday. The new company which has taken over say they intend to make, not£34,000 a year, but£80,000 a year, and that they intend to do it by increasing the£2 5s. 6d. holiday to£4 4s. and the£2 9s. holiday to£4 10s. With every move the worker makes to try and improve his conditions, it seems that there is always somebody ready to make sure that things will be so organised that the worker will lose the benefit of his better conditions. That is a little sharp practice. The new company which has taken over Douglas Camp intends to ""rook"" the working people of this country who want to spend their holidays in the Isle of Man. I agree with what has been said about Pay-as-you-earn. There does not seem to be much complaint from men and women about the tax taken for a 47-or 48-hour week, but there is bitter complaint when the tax is deducted from overtime. I believe it would be a step in the right direction if it were possible for the Government to give an assurance that overtime would not be taxed in this way. There are one or two very enlightened employers in the country; you can count them on. two hands. Those employers provide all the required amenities, and do not want any praise for doing it. They do it as a business proposition. When a man enters their works there is a place for him in which to change his clothes, and if he is working where conditions are unpleasant he is provided with a complete outfit, which is afterwards left at the works and washed and repaired at the employer's expense. How many employers could do this, if they showed the slightest interest in the welfare of their employees? One or two firms, because it pays them, have gone to the extent of repairing the clothes they provide for their workers, some have provided free a complete set of overalls twice in 12 months—I am talking about the pre-coupon period—and have offered another set of overalls at the wholesale price. I find it difficult to believe that employers will co-operate in our efforts to avoid depressing wages, and to prevent unemployment, in the future. A new Measure is to come into operation in March, whereby employers who employ over 25 people are compelled to engage 2 per cent. disabled workers. I have had experience of industries in which the eyesight of workers has been failing, but where they would do their damnedest to manage without spectacles, because they knew that the moment the employer saw them wearing spectacles, they would be instantly dismissed, ostensibly for some other reason. Having gone through all this it is exceedingly difficult for me to persuade myself that the employers would try genuinely to co-operate with us. Everything we have obtained has been forced from them. What grounds have they given us for saying that they would prefer to give a guaranteed wage? Why was it necessary that the Essential Work Order should be introduced, and how many employers— beyond half a dozen or so— have volunteered, without an application from the trade unions, to offer their workers a fortnight's holiday with pay? Nevertheless, I know that there must be some kind of co-operation. I have been the chairman of national joint industrial councils for a number of years and I know that, if the trade unions officials could be made to believe that the employers of this country were genuine, they have sufficient influence with the rank and file to enable us to get through this particular period which looks so black. If we were given that assurance of no more unemployment, no more depres-  sion of wages, it would go a long way towards helping us to bring forward the day to which the majority on these benches are looking forward.
