gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
At this moment of my maiden speech I call to my mind very clearly the opening remarks of the maiden speech of my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Hertford (Lieut.-Colonel Walker-Smith). He discussed, if I remember correctly, the relative desirabilities of a quick plunge by making a maiden speech early in the Session, and of gradual immersion, after listening to more experienced Members before speaking. I thought he was wrong when he made the quick plunge, but now I find myself agreeing with him. I decided to wait and gain experience but, as I am sure other hon. Members will appreciate, I was faced with the prospect of either making my maiden speech as soon as I could or finding some really reliable first-class lunatic asylum to which I could retreat. I hope that after hearing me hon. Members will not think I should have chosen the second course.  I have often heard an older Member congratulating a new Member who had just made his maiden speech on making an informative speech. I am not making an informative speech, probably a very ill-informed one. I speak not as one who has been in Germany recently but as somebody who was in Germany during the war, and for exactly two days after the Armistice was declared. With regard to men, women and children in Europe dying of starvation during the   winter I do not want to talk. As far as our Allies are concerned it is obviously our bounden duty to assist them in every way in our power, and I am sure that His Majesty's Government would not lag behind us on this side of the House in that endeavour. I think there is no point at issue regarding this matter, and it is not a point I would wish to raise, but it is Germany itself that I want to deal with. I put my name to the Motion on the Paper which has been referred to and I agree with it in toto. I would like to make my reasons clear, and here I am speaking entirely for myself and not for this side of the House. Personally I do not care two rows of pins what happens to the German people, men, women or children. I do not care from the sentimental point of view. [An Hon. Member: ""Shame.""] All right, shame if you like. I have seen quite enough of them and what they have done to us and what they have done to people I know; but I do care from another point of view, that of the old lady with an umbrella in England who stood up during the war and said ""Let us starve all the Germans after the war and let us do rather horrible things""—which I will not mention to the House—""to them."" That was all very well in war. It was all very well then to say what we thought, but it is not right from the practical point of view. We do care for our own troops in Germany now and we do care for the Allied countries who fought with us during the war. If this mass deportation and this mass starvation in Germany should lead to disease, an epidemic may start in the East of Europe and spread like wildfire to the West, to Berlin and further Westwards, and may affect our troops. It might be cholera, dysentery, typhoid, or some other disease. That, I think, is the first reason why we are interested in what may happen to Germany in the years to come. The second reason is that if we and our Allies allow Germany to starve and to become destitute we shall earn an even more supreme hatred than that which we earned after the war of 1914–18 and be building for another Versailles, another Hitler and another world war. I know that during the war our terms were ""unconditional surrender,"" and though I will not say we gave an undertaking, we im-  plied in what we said that when Germany surrendered, while we would not give them a peace with honour we would give them, shall I say, a peace with decency, and if we break that implied promise then we shall build up the hatred which existed after the last war and we shall be faced in years to come, possibly not in my lifetime, with a third world war. Regarding point one in the Motion, mass expulsion of Germans from Eastern Europe during the coming winter, we have heard a lot of talk about the Czechoslovak Government, the Polish Government and the Hungarian Government, but I do suggest strongly—and possibly I would not dare to suggest it if this were not my maiden speech—that, after all, Eastern Germany is in the main under the influence of the Soviet Union. I do not say they completely dictate policy, but I suggest that they do in the main guide and govern what the smaller Powers in Eastern Europe shall do. Therefore, the only way in which we can solve this problem is to approach the Soviet Union. Here is a question to which I should like an answer from His Majesty's Government. What about Soviet Russia? Is she willing to be reasonable on these matters? Will she agree to defer, or give her aid to deferring, this mass evacuation from Eastern Europe, or will she not; and if she will not can His Majesty's Government tell us what ideas they have on making her take what I suggest is a preeminently sensible step? We have four countries in power in Germany—the Soviet Union, ourselves, the United States of America and France—and I should very much like to know how much cooperation there is between them and whether there is to be further co-operation. We have not been told and I for one should very much like to know. Regarding point two, I think that at the moment the only incentive we can offer to the miners of Germany to produce more coal is by providing better food and better accommodation. I think better pay is ruled out at the moment owing to the effect of the black market running in Germany and the instability of the German currency. It is no good giving to miners money which is so many bits of paper and nothing else, but something should be done to provide better food and better housing. Again I would emphasise that this is not because I care   two rows of pins, or even one row, about the German miners, but I do care very much about how much coal they produce. You cannot expect a man whether you like him or not, to produce coal unless he is well fed and well housed, a man who is wet and hungry will not produce coal. Therefore, I suggest better food for them, any way; I am not competent to speak about their housing, because I do not know about it and I should welcome any information from the Government. Their food, however, should be at least equal to, though certainly not more than, that of miners of this country if we want the full output of which the men are capable. As to the railways of Germany, when I was out there they were in a horrible state and I have no doubt they still are. As to motor transport, I should like to say—and this is from personal experience though I am afraid it is now rather out of date—that on the day the war finished in Germany we in my regiment, and I do not think we differed from any other regiment, had roughly one German private car to every officer and certainly one three-ton lorry to every squadron. The regiments I met had the same number of vehicles. When one went down a road on the day the armistice was declared, one saw at the roadside thousands of German three-ton and six-ton lorries waiting to come on to the main road and give themselves up. Directly alter I left Germany, I had a letter from a friend saying that all the private cars and most of the lorries had been requisitioned by the Allied Military Government. Doubtless they needed them at that time, but I would like to hear from the Government whether the whole of the German transport system which remained after the war has been handed back to the Germans to deal with this problem. They get practically no petrol. In many places we found lorries abandoned by the side of the road because of lack of petrol. But petrol and tankers are available. A tanker is a tanker, and it cannot be used for carrying rice puddings or anything else. The only problem in this matter is currency. Surely it would be possible to come to some arrangement with the United States and with other countries to provide some type of Lend-Lease to get essential petrol for Europe in the coming winter. With regard to the third point of the Motion, the immediate setting-up of a Supreme Economic Council to co-ordinate the efforts of all the Governments concerned in European reconstruction, I would like to ask again, how much will the United States and Soviet Russia cooperate with us? That is a thing we must know before we can go a step further. We cannot solve this problem, especially as far as Germany is concerned, by ourselves, and, as the Prime Minister has said, we cannot solve it on a zonal basis. There must be co-operation between all before we can solve it, and we must solve it, because the future of the world depends upon it. I ask the Government to tell us how much co-operation we are going to get, and hope to get, between ourselves, the United States of America and Russia.
