gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is my first speech in the House of Commons, and I would ask the indulgence of the House for that reason. It is very appropriate that I should utter my first words in this House on this terrible problem in my own division. I represent what is probably the worst or one of the worst-housed divisions in the country. It is common to find eight or nine people living in one or two rooms. That is very closely linked with the incidence of tuberculosis on Tyneside. The figure for the incidence for tuberculosis in Newcastle is almost twice that for the country as a whole. I feel that that is closely linked with the appalling housing conditions. I am a member of the City Council of Newcastle, and for the past few years I have been the leader of my party on that body. I have never ceased to urge the housing committee to face up to its responsibilities. The waiting list has actually increased by more than one thousand in the past year, and for the past three years not half of the Government allocation of houses has been built. The record is very much worse than in neighbouring towns. Sunderland, which is smaller, completed 63 houses in January this year Newcastle completed seven. I should like briefly to mention one or two of the practical problems which I understand are supposed to be holding up housing progress. First of all, there is a shortage   of bricklayers. I think that this perhaps is the effect of bad housing progress and not so much the cause of it. Possibly the small amount of building activity in housing in the past few years is responsible for the available supply of bricklayers being largely engaged on other building projects. I would ask the Minister, especially in view of the speech made today by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to see whether it is possible to make available more bricklayers for housing and to cut down on less important building projects in that part of the world. Second, I understand that heating engineers are held up because there is a tremendous shortage of tubing and galvanised tanks and houses cannot be completed because these two commodities are in short supply. It may be that the Minister can give us some assurance that more will be made available in the North-East. There is a third difficulty which I would ask the Minister to look into. It is that one particular contractor has managed to corner the greater part of the housing contracts in Newcastle. I am convinced that, because of the very bad site organisation of this contractor, considerable delays have been caused. Perhaps the Minister would look into those delays caused by the cornering of contracts by this particular contractor. Those are not all the problems, but the time is very short. They are the sort of practical problems alleged to be holding up building, in addition to the vital question of land mentioned by my hon. Friend. They are the sort of things I would ask the Minister to investigate. Newcastle is a very important city. It is the hub of the North-East. It is a very big, ancient and famous city, and its people, particularly its engineers, make a very great contribution to the economic well-being of the nation. I am quite certain the Minister will agree that they deserve a much better deal on the question of housing than they are getting at the present time.
