gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am sorry to inflict another maiden speech on the Committee, especially as we have had so many today. I promise to be brief and to the point, because in the short time that I have been here I have become a convert to the desirability of five- or ten-minute speeches by backbench Members. I represent one-third of the capital city of Wales, but I am the only back-bench Member to represent a constituency in Cardiff. It has a proud history of representation in the House, but it has had no reason in the past to be prouder than it is today, when two of its representatives hold high office in the Government. One of them is the Minister of State for Wales and the other the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the author of the Budget. I have a special interest in the activities of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he is my own Member of Parliament. I have to ask him to deal with my personal tax problems as well as those of the nation. I also have a special interest in him because I voted for him at the last election. I have onerous duties as the Member for Cardiff, North, not merely to represent the many good people who elected me and even those who did not, but because at least three Members—possibly four; another might be moving into the area—live in my constituency. I have to take care of their personal problems and handle any difficulties which they may face in the constituency. From that, hon. Members will gather that Cardiff, North is the residential part of Cardiff. The chief problems are housing, the high price of housing, the price which has to be paid for building land, dear mortgages and high rates. In particular, the leasehold question has been a burning problem, particularly in South Wales, but  all over the country, for so long. I am sure that we shall have the opportunity to discuss these matters in future and, therefore, I do not wish to do more than welcome the proposal concerning the leasehold reform Bill, which, I think, will be greeted with considerable joy in Cardiff and South Wales. Cardiff is the capital of a nation and is at the heart of one of the major industrial regions of the country. We have heard many new Members like myself speaking during this debate and during the debate on the Queen's Speech about the problems of the regions. It is particularly relevant to this discussion on the economic situation that we should mention regional economic problems. South Wales is, in miniature, representative of many of the difficulties, anxieties and hopes which face the British economy. We have, for example, the problem of modernisation. We have to replace old and declining industries. We want new and diversified industries to take their place. In South Wales there are concentrated pockets of unemployment which need immediate alleviation. We need a better equipped and faster system of communication with other parts of the country. There have already been improvements in some of these respects as a result of the intensification of regional policies introduced by the Government since they came to power in 1964. But they are at the moment only a successful holding operation. There is still need for essential growth points, not merely to handle the temporary social problems facing South Wales, but to put the Welsh economy on a sound footing for the future. The potentiality of South Wales should be heard in every house in the country. Many people in the Home Counties might go to South Wales if industry were to move there, but many people who live in the Home Counties have a false impression about what it is like to live in South Wales. Firms and companies do not understand or appreciate the potentiality and possibilities of South Wales. It has an excellent labour force. It has improved communications with the Midlands and London. Now we have the development of the Severn Bridge which will link Wales with the West Country. There is access through its ports to the   markets of Europe and beyond. All this makes it more frustrating for people in South Wales to see its potentiality not being used or developed to its fullest extent. I do not want to make a further plea for South Wales—I am sure that we shall have the chance to discuss the matter when the Industrial Development Bill comes before the House—but it is vitally important that we should get large-scale industrial units to develop and expand the economy of South Wales. When in the past many parts of Britain have prospered there have been occasions when South Wales has not shared this prosperity to the full. I should like to return to Westminster and discuss the Budget. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor put the Budget in its true perspective when he said it was just one part of the Government's economic programme, just one day in the life of the Government tackling our basic economic problems. But for me it was a very exciting day. It was the first Budget that I had heard and I was grateful for the opportunity of being able to hear it at such a young age. I enjoyed the very concise history of Budgets which we heard from the hon. Lady the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher). My political experience does not allow me to remember the two Budgets of 1955—perhaps fortunately so. I barely remember those of 1957 and 1958. But I remember vividly—because this was the time when I became politically conscious—the Budget of 1961. I do not want to open old arguments on this matter, but in 1961 we had the biggest deflationary package in our economic history—10 per cent. increase in Purchase Tax, 7 per cent. Bank Rate and a fierce attack on spending. I refer to that matter because we read in the Press a week ago, before we heard the Budget, that we were in for the same package. If the Press had had their way, this was what we would have had. There was a deflation lobby which supported a large increase in the pool of unemployment to take the steam out of the economy. It was, therefore, with double pleasure that I heard the Budget. My right hon. Friend should be congratulated on the way in which he resisted the temptation  to follow previous courses and tried to seek new methods of dealing with the situation. It is true that idle hands have not yet produced one dollar's worth of exports. It has been clear over the last 15 years that we have needed new instruments of control of our fiscal policy. Too often over the last 15 years have we had a series of stock responses to a series of surprising recurring situations, The last 15 years of our financial history have been fairly monotonous and unsuccessful. We should congratulate the Chancellor on the way in which he has tried to adopt a novel approach to the questions facing him. Last year he introduced the Corporation Tax, and this year the Selective Employment Tax. However, he misled the Committee when he claimed, as everybody else has claimed, that the Selective Employment Tax is a new tax. It is a very dangerous thing to say, because those, like myself, who search through the history books, might find an antecedent or predecessor which invalidates the claim of originality. Alas, in my searches, I found that the Chancellor is not the first man to introduce a Selective Employment Tax. The Chancellor's tax has a very noble, if not quite as worthy, origin in Lord North's tax on services in 1777. That was a tax on manservants. I mention this to show my right hon. Friend that there are some interesting similarities between his present tax and the original one. I do not know whether he had the original tax in mind. The first comparison that might well be made with the original tax is that Lord North distinguished between what he called people employed in luxuries, such as gamekeeping, and those employed in manufacturing. Those employed in manufacturing were exempt from the tax. I have been surprised to hear hon. Members opposite refer to this distinction as a typical Socialist measure to distinguish between services and manufacturing, but I should have thought that Lord North was the last person who would be called a typical Socialist. The original tax underwent a large number of amendments, which might please hon. Members opposite. One of the most important amendments was to exempt people working in husbandry and   agriculture, which is something for which hon. Members opposite have been pressing. At the same time, I have to tell them that the tax lasted a long time and proved to be quite lucrative. I have listened with sympathy to the pleading for relief for arts centres and theatres. There are a number of examples of exemptions which one could claim. I would like my right hon. Friend the Chancellor to consider exempting women part-timers. I would like the tax to discriminate in favour of the regions, and I would like my right hon. Friend to discriminate in favour of manufacturing industries which provide exports. All the suggestions, however, which we have heard, from both sides of the Committee, are strangely, a tribute to the tax itself. They show that it is capable of great flexibility and can become more sophisticated as time goes by. It is, however, essential that my right hon. Friend should provide the framework of the tax and get it going. The tax is just one other useful addition to the increasing armoury of new economic and fiscal weapons for the Government to tackle Britain's economic problems. It is a continuation of the process which we promised the electorate in 1964 and again this year. We promised the people a radical analysis of the economic problems and that we would forge the weapons with which to tackle them. This tax is part of those weapons alongside, for example, the Prices and Incomes Board, the Industrial Reorganisation Corporation, the investment incentives and regional economic councils. All these add up to an impressive programme of reform. As a young person who is keen on expansion, I suggest that we need both these methods and others to tackle our problems and to build up the tough-centred economy that we all want. I would like the Prices and Incomes Board, for example, to extend its scope. It should not only deal with prices and incomes, or even, as some hon. Members suggest, concern itself with productivity, but it should also concern itself with equality. One of the interesting byproducts of the Prices and Incomes Board is an interesting insight into the structure and payment of wages and incomes. It is beginning to show great discrepancies and to publicise the inequality  which still exists in our pay and income structure. I would like to see the Prices and Income Board have a new and important rôle. If there are to be vast price increases, the Board will have an important task in holding down and preventing the worst form of increases which might come from such incitement as we have seen during the last few days in the Press, almost encouraging a rise in prices because of this tax. Any economic measure inevitably leads to social change, which sometimes can be painful and needs to be helped. In particular, it has been noticeable that references to greater mobility of labour come glibly off our tongues during this debate without realisation in some cases of the full consequences of what these measures involve. In South Wales, for example, they could mean breaking up long-held family ties with communities and, in some instances, the selling of houses in areas where property values are falling and moving to areas where they are rocketing. It is important to remember these things and the need for greater redundancy payments and improved retraining programme which is still woefully inadequate. It is important to remember the inequalities which still exist in society—for example, to compare the copper handshake for a miner after long service in the mines to the golden handshake on the ending of a short-term contract of a director. It is important to look into the question of giving loans and grants to help people who do not receive this assistance to enable them to move from one part of the country to another, if they have to do so for the sake of their job, and to help them in house purchase and to compensate for these moves. These benefits have been extended to many of the professional classes. It is important now to extend them to all. This inequality of treatment which still exists between groups within our society is the basic cause of the division within society. It is a division which we are trying to put right in secondary education. It is a division on the workshop floor between management and worker, between the staff status of some and the industrial status of others. It is a basic   cause of many restrictive practices and the mutual distrust which is shared on both sides of industry. Here is a chance for the Government, not, as hon. Members opposite say we should, in industrial relations, to set an example in, say, a new industry over which we will have control, such as the steel industry, to promote healthy industrial democracy that young people like myself hope to see as the future pattern in industrial relations. I am sorry that I have taken so long—I did not intend to spend even 10 minutes—to describe my initial hopes of this Government and this Parliament. Cynics will tell me that with age I will grow disillusioned, but if this Budget is anything to go by I think that we will confound them.
