gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
We had been led to expect a rather different speech from the right hon. Member for Southport (Mr. R. S. Hudson) from that which he has delivered. We had been led to expect that there would be more fireworks, more animation. I have often heard him speak; he has several styles, and it is for him, of course, to choose according to the occasion. This afternoon we were very much  interested, particularly towards the close of his speech, by what came very near to a confession- of faith, I will not say identical with that which many of my hon. Friends would make, but certainly nearer to them than to the faith of the old-fashioned Tories behind him who did not seem to me to be very enthusiastic when the right hon. Gentleman sat down. I wish to say a few words about the terms of the Amendment which the right hon. Gentleman has moved because it seems to me to be based upon a most inaccurate statement of facts which I should like to analyse. The right hon. Gentleman regrets that, notwithstanding various considerations, which I need not recite, Your Majesty's Government should obstinately persist ""— I will revert to that phrase in a moment— in a policy of nationalisation which has already imposed""— I desire to draw the attention of the House to these words—. heavy burdens on consumers and taxpayers alike, and is impeding the enterprise and iniative which is essential to our recovery. I venture to say that that statement has not been proved by the right hon. Gentleman in his speech, and cannot be proved. I propose to give a few facts to the House in support of my criticism of the Amendment. To begin with, a number of the services that we have nationalised in this Parliament were not referred to by the right hon. Gentleman at all. Therefore, I suppose that he has no criticism to make of them. I begin with the Bank of England, the nationalisation of which was our first act in this field in the first Session of this Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman did not mention the Bank of England in his speech at all. Therefore, I suppose he has no criticism to offer of the way in which the nationalised bank is being conducted. He will contradict me if I have misunderstood him. It is certainly the case that the Bank of England is imposing no burden on consumers or taxpayers. Indeed, so far as the taxpayers are concerned, the Treasury is receiving punctually every half year £870,000, which balances the payment made to the holders of the Treasury Stock issued to the previous stockholders. Therefore, there is no burden on the consumers and taxpayers, and the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment has no application at all to the Bank of England. I will now pass to the second of the Measures which I myself had the honour to present to the House in the field of nationalisation — Cable and Wireless. Not a word was said about Cable and Wireless by the right hon. Gentleman. Therefore, I suppose, he has no criticism to offer of that nationalised service either.
