gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have a great deal of sympathy with the view expressed by my hon. Friend the Member for Lewisham, West (Mr. Dickens) about the need for uninhibited controversy in the House, but on reflection I think that I will continue to seek the customary indulgence of the Committee towards a maiden speaker. Indeed, I was fortified by Mr. Speaker's generous assurance some weeks ago that war would not be declared on me until I was rash enough to catch the eye of the Chair on some subsequent occasion. I therefore felt it conventional, if not entirely in accordance with my inclinations, to be a neutral in the conflict which is at present engaging this Committee, and I suppose, like all neutrals, run the risk of being blamed by the antagonists for intruding with my well meaning homilies. But I feel that my theme will quickly show that any claim I might have to be a non-belligerent is perhaps unjustified. A non-belligerent perhaps in the battle of the Budget, but this is hardly likely to protect me from the controversies which all hon. Members know swarm round the theme to which I should like to address a few remarks. My theme is local government reform and its relationship to regional planning and regional government, and indeed to national Government in the years ahead. It is a theme which I suggest is less remote than it might appear at first glance from the matters which are now before the Committee, the problems of economic and industrial efficiency in the country and in the various localities. It is certainly a subject which has a distinct record of polemic and parochial warfare, and I sometimes suspect that the  teaching of Mao Tse-tung about guerrilla warfare came originally from a study of the resilience and dexterity which is shown in the field, and in battles for each field, which are fought by our native institutions of local democracy. But perhaps the parallel is more with the trench warfare of 1914–18, for the pattern has become one of great rigidity and slow attrition. A system which was created in the late 19th century has become fossilised and even sanctified by time. The arrival of the electric railway, the telephone, radio, television, the motor vehicle, and so on, this huge revolution in communications which is daily transforming us into a nation of urban nomads, has largely passed by, and been ignored by, our institutions of local democracy. It is fair to say that the Local Government Act, 1958, made some attempt to grapple with this problem. It recognised the existence of Special Review Areas in which novel suggestions for reform were to be sought, but this belated recognition of the facts of 20th century urban geography deserve no more than two cheers, for the Special Review Areas were so tightly corseted and so narrowly constricted by an outdated definition of conurbations, a definition which ignored the presence of large and dynamic urban regions, that the necessary structural reform was fatally handicapped from the outset. The essential problem does not lie in redrawing the administrative equivalent on a larger scale of the medieval town wall. It lies rather in recognising that any clear distinction between town and country, between borough and shire, has been destroyed by this remarkable and continuing increase in personal mobility which has characterised the past half century. It is, of course, much simpler to criticise than to find equally obvious solutions, and one of the difficulties is apparent from what I have tried to argue. For while increased mobility may have disrupted old, local communities, it has not yet erected in their place new regional communities with any sense of coherent identity, or common purpose, or transcending loyalties. Is it likely that a region as curiously amorphous as the East Midlands will produce these binding passions of loyalty   for which the men of Rutland were prepared so recently to go to the stake? I am sceptical of those who by some ambiguous so-called democratic alchemy are seeking to recreate the ancient kingdoms of England in a regional mould. Perhaps I can clarify this point, because, as a councillor with eight years' experience in Birkenhead, which in part straddles my constituency of Bebington, I am conscious of the heavy burden which local councillors throughout the country are shouldering, not least the weighty financial problems which in their own way, in their own province, match those of my right hon. Friend, and if the pressures on local authorities are already so formidable that the amateur status of the councillor is increasingly jeopardised, how much more difficult will it be to find men and women of the right calibre and of the correct representative skills to serve on elected regional authorities? I know it is often suggested that elected regional councillors would be responsible only for the so-called strategic decisions, the major policy questions. The detailed day-to-day work would devolve upon lower tier authorities. But I am sceptical of the inference that this might lead to some reduction in the work load upon such so-called strategic councillors. There may well be a difference between those whose view spans the far horizons—as my right hon. Friends need no reminding—and those of us in the honourable infantry who tramp the well-worn paths of duty. But would any general or Prime Minister accept that because his rôle is strategic it guarantees a short working day? Is it not certain that regional councillors will equally find their time consumed and their work exacting? And even if they avoided becoming full-time, paid professional politicians, with all the occupational hazards of which hon. Members are well aware, I am dubious about the attractions of such an office to the young, able, ambitious and—not least—happily domesticated family man or woman. There is too much gerontocracy already in local government, and it would be a sad paradox if the rule of the elderly retired was to be unwittingly confirmed by an ostensible attempt to enlarge regional democracy. Yet when all is said and done about the difficulties of electing regional authorities I remain apprehensive about the character of the new regional planning councils. I am disturbed not because of the calibre of their members; they are eminently qualified in both expertise and experience. I am simply hostile in principle to a system of nomination which is wholly bureaucratic. Such nominees are bound to seem the creatures of Central Government, with no representative roots, and no locally derived political power. Is it likely that the elected council of some powerful authority would tamely accept unwelcome advice from such a body, and is it desirable? The battle for democracy against centralised bureaucracy in a technically advanced State is never-ending. Vigilance is at least as necessary within these Islands as it is towards the institutions of the European Community. We are told correctly that this is the time for bold initiative towards Europe. Equally it is the time for brave experiment in democratic evolution at home. The two strands are inextricably interwoven, for if regional policies in Britain, with all their relevance for economic growth, come to be defined in a greater Europe, is it not all the more necessary that regional interests should have effective means of expression? If, as I have tried to argue, elected regional authorities may prove unrepresentative of those interests, and if, alternatively, nominated regional authorities may lack political power to enforce their decisions, particularly unpopular ones, is there perhaps a case for giving further thought to the ideas sketched by the Prime Minister during the debate on the Gracious Speech, referring to regional all-party committees? Are not Members of this House in a potentially effective position to scrutinise, criticise and exercise democratic surveillance at regional level? Instead of intruding into the regions yet another level of elected councillors to serve as regional ombudsmen, would it not be wiser to harness the energies and democratically derived political power of hon. Members of this House? Such an approach, in principle, is more likely to add to the dignity of this House than is the establishment of provincially separatist parliaments. Given some such approach to the regional problems we can   then embark upon a drastic reform of local government proper, simplifying the present hotch-potch without producing authorities too vast to be communities in anything but a cartographic sense. Indeed, without such an agonising reappraisal of our local government, whose orbit now covers so many of the important growth sectors of the economy, such efficient use of manpower as the Budget seeks to encourage will be gravely handicapped, for there is an immense and wasteful duplication of scarce skills at present in local government employment. I apologise for having spent so long on our regional geography of government, but I understand that I am the first academic geographer to enter this House since Sir Halford Mackinder, a notable geopolitician. It has, therefore, grieved me to find that the geographical whereabouts of my constituecny of Bebington are a mystery to more than a few hon. Members. By my disappointment that such a busy and important and thriving part of Merseyside has not yet entered the geographical consciousness of such Members is moderated by the respect and recognition which its former representatives in this House so obviously enjoy. Of my immediate predecessor, Mr. Geoffrey Howe, I would simply say that if our party system is to be faulted, it should be reproached for denying this House the services of such an able and industrious Member. His predecessor, who now graces another place, was widely known and a friend of many hon. Members. I am again reminded of the high standards of constituency service against which I have to measure myself. Bebington has at least one other distinguished son in the House. My right hon. Friend the Member for Huyton—the Prime Minister—as a young man went west—not too far west—from his native Yorkshire to the sunnier plains of Cheshire and became the premier, and, indeed, the solitary sixth-former in the newly completed Wirral Grammar School in my constituency. But Bebington, no less than the Prime Minister, has changed immeasurably since those days. Within the Wirral Peninsula it is a thriving and rapidly growing area of prosperity and scenic attraction. Sophisticated new industries guarantee its continued progress  and in that drive towards industrial modernity and efficiency which this Budget debate is really all about I am confident that my constituency will fully play its part.
