gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I was delighted to listen to the speech of my right hon. Friend the Postmaster-General and his explanation of the Bill, which is an ambitious Measure. Certainly, it is not a dull one. The fact that Post Office operations will be more modern and efficient has been stressed and that, of course, is a very fine thing. My right hon. Friend mentioned the new mechanisation of the telephone system. I have a personal interest in this matter, because in Bolton this wonderful new installation has been constructed. I saw the foundations laid and as I watched its progress through the window of the mayor's parlour in the town hall I little thought that this afternoon I should be in a position to express my thanks in this House. I was present when the change-over took place and when the Postmaster-General pulled a cord which set this fine installation in operation. I am not a technician and I do not understand the mechanism of this new system, but I know that the operation was carried out in such a way that the only time that the telephone service was out of commission in Bolton was for 49 seconds, during the changeover from one building to another. We thought there might have been a good deal of teething trouble, but we are not experiencing that. We find that the S.T.D. certainly works. It has many advantages. It is simple to operate and time is saved. At the outset, over 10,000 subscribers were able to dial their own calls to 535 exchanges, which is a great thing for our town, where we have suffered a little in the past from an out-of-date manual system. That is why we appreciate this change. It gives dialling facilities for over 2½ million telephones throughout the country. But there is another side to this matter. I have noticed a great change of attitude at Bolton, where the Post Office staged two exhibitions which have been well attended; over 600 people have visited them each day. Visitors have been treated with great courtesy and a  tribute is due to the staff. There seems to be a great human feeling and a desire to help. I detected an urge to discover what the customer wants, which is a great thing, and the whole approach is businesslike and efficient. As I said at the outset, we in Bolton seem to have the full benefit of this system. Much has been done in this sphere, but much has still to be done and I feel sure that the Postmaster-General, with all the facilities at his disposal, will prove big enough for the task. Many changes will have to be made, but I am quite sure that the Post Office may look forward to a very promising future.
