gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with much trepidation, Mr. Speaker, that I rise in this House to speak today for the first time. You find before you a new Member who is perhaps more suprised than most to be here, particularly as I had a majority of over 8,000 in what was supposed to be a Labour marginal. My seat of Derbyshire, South is composed of bits of four old seats and I want to pay tribute to my predecessors. Part of my seat came from Derby, North and part from Derby, South where the previous Labour Members, Mr. Phillip Whitehead and Mr. Walter Johnson, had built up considerable personal reputations. Part came from the old seat of Belper whose Member, Sheila Faith, paved the way for the ready acceptance of a woman Member of Parliament. She worked hard and her absence from the House is much regretted by her former constituents in Derbyshire. The fourth part of the seat comes from the former constituency of Derbyshire, South-East and I am delighted to see that my hon. Friend the Member for Erewash (Mr. Rost) has been returned to the House with a thumping big majority. All my predecessors gave caring and responsible service to their constituents, and to follow them will be difficult. The seat of Derbyshire, South has a bit of everything. We have farmers. One problem on election day was getting the shearing done in time to vote and there were many nicked sheep around the next day. We have horticulture, and hon. Members are likely to hear me ask in the Dining Room ""But is it an English lettuce?"" because if it is, it is likely to have come from my area We have engineering with many successful companies which export, even to Japan. We have an active leisure industry, power stations and coal mining. Indeed, I am looking   forward to holding hands in this House from time to time with the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) who, I believe, also represents a few Derbyshire miners. However, the miners of Derbyshire, South are the most moderate in Britain. During the recent industrial dispute 88 per cent. voted against going on strike. I have constituents who work for Rolls-Royce and British Rail. Indeed, my seat is so diverse that I may find in it an opportunity to talk in this House on almost anything if I catch your eye, Mr. Speaker. I am very lucky for the seat's greatest asset is the friendliness and the warm-heartedness of its people and I am looking forward to serving them in this House for, I hope, a long time. My particular interest in the Gracious Speech lies in housing, particularly the Government's intention further to promote the sale of council houses. There will be many opportunities in the months and years to come for me to be controversial. I merely set out today my interest in the subject. For the last eight years I have been privileged to be a member of the Birmingham city council where I had many dealings with the right hon. Member for Birmingham, Sparkbrook (Mr. Hattersley). I was chairman of the housing committee in the previous 12 months when I was responsible for 130,000 council properties. In that short time we sold 4,000 council properties and we used the considerable capital receipts so engendered to finance major repairs to other council properties. It was and it remains my firm view that all council tenants should benefit from the sale of some of their properties to sitting tenants. During that time I bombarded the then Minister for Housing and Construction, my hon. Friend the Member for Tonbridge and Mailing (Mr. Stanley), with advice, good and perhaps not so good, about what should go into the legislation. I appreciated the prompt attention that he showed me at all times. Whatever the views of hon. Members on the sale of council houses—I recognise that there may be differing opinions — several matters are clear. The policy is widely popular, even among those who do not wish to buy. Even solid Labour voters have taken advantage of the existing legislation to buy their homes. Even Labour councils, including those in my constituency, have willingly sold many properties. It is also clear that the policy is changing the face of the British landscape as we develop and further our property-owning democracy. I hope that the legislation to be enacted will take account of the problems of those who, like me, have to make it work. In particular, I gripe about the unbelievably cumbersome right-to-buy form which is 10 pages long and which, I suspect, will need a degree-level education to understand, let alone to fill it in properly. Surely it must be possible to draft something simpler. The cost floor calculations for post-1974 houses were complicated and in my authority required a team of housing officers, doing nothing else but working them out, and they did not sell a single extra council house. Please may we have legislation that is simple, clear and easy to operate, that does not need hordes of civil servants and local government officers to make sense of it? I already find the House an exciting and thrilling place, Mr. Speaker, and I hope that I always will. My warmest thanks are due to you, to the staff of the House and to all  my colleagues for the kindness and courtesy that I have enjoyed already, and to the electors of Derbyshire, South for allowing me to come here.
