gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Brent, North (Mr. Gardiner) on his maiden speech. Perhaps he could give us some further advice on the odds that we could get for other unusual sporting events in the next few weeks, because I am sure that other hon. Members would find that information useful. At the risk of sounding inappropriately contentious, I must say that I do not agree with all the points that the hon. Gentleman made about the Budget. I congratulate my hon. Friends who made maiden speeches this morning and I am grateful for the opportunity to make my first speech in the House in such an important debate. I have the honour to represent the constituency of Epping Forest. Like the hon. Member for Brent, North, I do not claim that my constituency is necessarily the most beautiful in the country, although of course I think that it is. However, it is one of the most ancient, and its charm lies in the contrast between its ancient and modern aspects. It is an easy constituency to find on a map because it lies on the line of the Greenwich meridian and because its centre is at the point where the M25 meets the M11. Not many hon. Members are lucky enough to have two busy and noisy motorways dissecting their constituency, although my hon. Friend the Member for Bromsgrove (Miss Kirkbride) noted in her speech that she has three motorways in her constituency. The fortunes of the towns and villages around the forest have, for centuries, been closely linked with the fortunes of the City of London. The ancient forest itself was taken into the ownership of the Corporation of the City of London, in the early part of the last century, to protect the forest land from development and to provide an accessible area of countryside for the recreation of the working people of London. I am glad to report that that was a successful strategy. The working people of London now prefer to travel further afield for their recreation, but Epping forest has been well preserved and contains some of the best examples of ancient native British trees. Some   of the trees that we now admire are the very ones around which Henry VIII rode when he was hunting, and under which Elizabeth I is reputed to have had her famous liaisons with the Earl of Essex. A thousand years ago, a church was built in the town that we now call Waltham Abbey. King Harold prayed there before the battle of Hastings and, sadly, was buried there after the battle of Hastings. A hundred years ago, Queen Victoria rode through Loughton during her jubilee celebrations, and modern commuters from Epping, Loughton, Buckhurst Hill, Theydon Bois and Chigwell travel daily to work in the City of London. My constituency has literary connections. Both Charles Dickens and Anthony Trollope spent time in the Epping Forest area while writing some of their most famous novels. Hon. Members will have every sympathy, I think, with Trollope's great political hero, Phineas Finn, who, in the expectation of making his maiden speech, took his seat in the House with a consciousness of much inward trepidation of heart. The Chamber seemed to swim round before our hero's eyes. All was confused and there arose as it were a sound of waters in his cars, and a feeling as of a great hell around him. I can only assume that the House was a much less welcoming place in the past century, when Trollope was writing, than I find it now. Since the beginning of the modern political era, which I count as the time when women were given the vote, my constituency—broadly speaking, as there have been boundary changes—has been represented by only three Members of Parliament, all of them very distinguished men. I am happy to pay the traditional tribute to my immediate predecessor, Steve Norris. There is much to say about Mr. Norris, but I shall not say it now. He was well known and well liked as a great parliamentary character by hon. Members of all political persuasions; indeed, he still is. He served Epping Forest well in his inimitable and high-profile way. He was, and still is, accomplished not only as a politician and a successful Under-Secretary of State for Transport, but as a successful business man, media personality, bon viveur and author. I was flattered to have been mentioned three times in Steve's famous book. [Interruption.] No, I shall not quote it. He gave me many wise words of advice when I became the candidate for Epping Forest, most of which it would be inappropriate for me to relate to the House. I will relate, however, that he advised me that I should not necessarily feel that, in all aspects of parliamentary life, I had to follow in his footsteps. I have so far adhered to that advice. I can tell by the reactions of hon. Members that they join me in wishing Steve every success in his future business career. Steve won the by-election in 1988 that was caused by the sad and untimely death of John Biggs-Davison, who had represented the constituency for 33 years. It is appropriate that I should also pay tribute to him. John Biggs-Davison was a well-respected Member of the House, admired for his impressive personal integrity and deep political convictions. He vehemently championed the cause of the Union with Northern Ireland. I share his views in that respect and I support the work of his organisation, the Friends of the Union. John's family have set up the John Biggs-Davison memorial trust, which provides financial help for those who have suffered in Northern Ireland, so his name and his cause live on. Older people in my constituency still have proud and vivid memories of their most celebrated Member of Parliament, Sir Winston Churchill. I discovered after I had made my first speech as the new parliamentary candidate for my constituency that I had been standing on the very spot where Winston used to stand to address his constituents—I am glad I discovered that after I had made my speech, because I would have been overcome with awe if I had known beforehand. In my family, Winston Churchill was regarded as the greatest hero of all time. One of my earliest childhood memories is of being made to sit for several hours with the curtains closed watching his funeral on television. I know that it is the fashion in the Conservative party to have spent one's early years listening to Churchill's speeches on the record player. I am afraid to say that in our house we had only one recording of a Churchill speech. I listened to it, but I learned only a few lines by heart—so I guess that I am not destined for great things in the Conservative party. However, it was useful to have listened to that speech because, thankfully, a quotation from it came into my mind as I was thinking about what to say in the middle of giving a certain speech—which all hon. Members gave—in the early hours of 2 May. Comparisons were made between the result of the 1997 general election and that of 1945. Suddenly I could hear Churchill's voice and his declaration, ""We shall never surrender."" Such is the spirit of the Conservative party and its leaders in our darkest hour. I am assured by several people who saw and heard Winston in his heyday in Epping that one of the apocryphal stories about him occurred not in Westminster but when he was speaking in Epping Forest from the back of a farm cart. A lady, who was presumably not a Conservative supporter, called out to him, ""If I were your wife, Mr. Churchill, I would give you poison,"" to which he retorted immediately, ""If you were my wife, Madam, I would take it."" My constituents have been well represented—I cannot presume to emulate any of the great men who were my predecessors. I am, however, deeply concerned about the effect of the new Government's Budget on families in my constituency. Not all my constituents have the life style of those famous Chigwell ladies, Sharon, Tracey and Dorien, from ""Birds of a Feather""—some do, but not all. Most of my constituents work hard and simply want to do the best they can to provide for their families and later to pass to their families whatever assets they have managed to accumulate. I am not unhappy about giving support to single mothers, but what about working mothers? What about women who are struggling to work and look after their families and who happen to be married to the fathers of their children? I see no support in the Government's policies for ordinary families. They are the very people who will be harmed by this Budget—because they have been prudent and saved, bought their own homes and invested in their own pensions. For example, the increase in stamp duty might appear to affect only a few people, because it applies to the upper end of the housing market. However, a fairly ordinary three-bedroomed house in Epping Forest costs £250,000. Therefore, the family that has worked hard and saved to buy such a property will be the first to be hit by the Government's cruel new taxes. Inevitably, we all know that the present policies will lead to a rise in interest rates, and the cost of mortgages will rise also. Sadly, there is greater disappointment in store for the average working family. Those families think that the savings that they have put into pension schemes will grow and provide an income for their retirement. As my hon. Friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton (Mr. Gibb) said, there are more funds in pension schemes in the United Kingdom than in the rest of the European Union put together. That puts us in a very strong economic position for the future. The effect of the Budget, however, and especially the windfall tax—it is a badly targeted envy tax if ever there was one—is that the investment that people have made in pension schemes will be worth much less than the sums for which they had hoped and planned. The windfall tax is not, as the Government would have us believe, a tax that nobody has to pay. It is once again a tax on the hard-working, prudent ordinary family. I appreciate that my remarks today should, by tradition, be uncontentious. That being so, I wish to make it clear that I do not criticise the Government for increasing the duty on petrol. The increase is justifiable for many good reasons. It is right to encourage greater use of public transport and, where possible, less use of the private car. If my constituents are to leave their cars at home, however, they need to have a good public transport system. Epping Forest lies at the end of the Central line. In addition to and in spite of the large amounts of taxpayers' money that have been poured into the underground system in recent years, it is still in need of substantial further capital investment. For reasons that are well rehearsed, that investment can come only through privatisation. The Labour party has thrown out Conservative privatisation plans. It is talking vaguely about a watered-down version, but it cannot be trusted. Labour's actions speak louder than its words, for we know what Labour has done to the privatised railways. Passengers are just beginning to benefit from the privatisation of Railtrack, because of the company's ability to invest its profits in improving services. So what do the Government do? They introduce a windfall tax and take £150 million away from Railtrack—yet the Labour party moaned for years about putting more taxpayers' money into the railways while we Conservatives were getting on with the successful business of privatisation. If the Deputy Prime Minister called for taxpayers' money to be spent once, he called for it to be spent 100 times on the railways. So what is the first thing that the Labour Government do? They take money away from the railways. It does not make sense. There was plenty of talk from the Chancellor of the Exchequer about policies to improve the environment, but what will he do about funding necessary improvements for London Underground? My constituents will be disappointed with the Budget. Like all the Labour party's rhetoric, it is designed to raise people's expectations, but those expectations cannot be met unless public expenditure is increased. That is the rock on which the Labour party's policies always falter. To conclude on a properly non-controversial note, we all agree that programmes aimed at getting young people into jobs are a good idea, but how are they to be paid for when  the windfall tax moneys run out? Dare I suggest that perhaps we can look forward after all to the new Government continuing with the privatisation programme?
