gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like, first, to express my gratitude to you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me so early in the debate; secondly, to the Minister of Housing and Local Government and Minister for Welsh Affairs, who knows that I have another Parliamentary duty to perform, and am unable to hear his reply; and, thirdly, to the Opposition Front Bench for bringing the very serious and distressing flood situation, which requires urgent treatment, before the House in this way today. In the early hours of Sunday, 4th December, the County of Montgomery and its people suffered the greatest disaster that has ever been known, not only in living memory but in the records of that county. The county is purely agricultural. Almost all our people depend upon agriculture, and even in the small market towns, the shops and the markets and everything else depend upon agricultural prosperity and the agricultural population. It is a county which has a very high agricultural production, and that is probably due to the fact that it is the main county through which the River Severn flows, right from its source at the southern end of the county on Plinlimmon. The river then flows northwards right through the county, and when it reaches the northern border turns eastwards into Shropshire and then flows southwards through Shropshire, Worcester and so on down to the Bristol Channel. The Severn Valley is noted for its high agricultural value. It is certainly the best agricultural land in Wales, and could probably be claimed to be the best agricultural land in the whole of Great Britain. Therefore, the standard of agriculture is very high indeed. It has been noted for many years for its pro  duction of some of the finest agricultural animals that are now so popular elsewhere, but which have originated there. People are accustomed to floods in the Severn Valley. Certainly, the river does rise rapidly, but never has it risen either so rapidly or so high as it did on that Sunday morning. Our warning point is about one-third of the way down the course which the river takes, at Caersws Bridge, about five miles from Newtown, and usually the danger point is reached when the river rises to 8 ft. above normal at that bridge. We have a very good warning system, but I suppose that because these warnings have been sent out and disasters such as occurred on that Sunday morning have not happened, people have, unfortunately, taken a chance; but there were very serious consequences to taking any chances on that Sunday morning. The river rose very rapidly on Saturday afternoon until, about midnight, it had reached very nearly 12 ft. above normal. A particularly unfortunate circumstance from the agricultural point of view was that most of the animals were already in their buildings and, of course, the people themselves were asleep. The total population is only about 43,000 and the number of houses is between 7,000 and 8,000. That morning 706 houses, farmhouses, shops, and business premises were flooded. Forty-one families had to be evacuated, and it was very difficult to get them to leave their homes. Three have been permanently evacuated because the houses have become dangerous. The figures of the agricultural losses are really appalling. In all, 360 cattle, 965 sheep, 292 pigs, 4,800 head of poultry, six horses and one dog, which, I suppose, was tied in its kennel, were lost. The mere recital of the figures shows how serious was the position, but some of the farmers have lost their very all. There is one in particular, who was very proud of his farm, which is not far from the English border and is very near to the junction of the main tributary with the Severn. His Red House farm is very well known, as he is himself. During the small hours, he lost 80 cattle, about 120 sheep, 200 turkeys and all his fowls.   He was left absolutely helpless, most of his machinery being ruined. That is on the farming side, but there was also a very serious tragedy in Newtown. When the flood occurred above the town, the river carried away with it, of all things, telegraph posts, which were brought down through the main street of the town, swinging from side to side and just sweeping all the shop fronts away. One man lost all his savings and all that he had put into working up his business, and that meant a loss to him of about £12,000. Unfortunately, as the hon. Member for Fulham (Mr. M. Stewart) said, so many of these people have not troubled to insure. There is one particularly striking case of that, because on the previous Monday, naturally, all the talk at the agricultural markets in the towns was of agricultural losses incurred owing to foot-and-mouth disease. One of the farmers on that Monday felt the danger of the situation and insured against the risk of foot-and-mouth disease. He was asked by the insurance people if he would not insure also against flood, but, unfortunately, he said, ""No. ""Within five days, the flood had come and disaster hit him. I pay my tribute to the local people. I mention, first, the police. As far as they possibly could, they did everything to warn people and then, when the disaster did strike, in the little market towns, the villages and farms they were unsparing in their help. So were all those who escaped the disaster, but I pay the greatest tribute of all to the women, especially those in the villages and homes which escaped the disaster because they arranged—and they are still doing it, day by day—that bus loads of them should go to the distressed area and help. Today, they are still doing their utmost to clear up the mess and swab it all away. They try to bring comfort and relief as well by taking food and all that is needed for the families there. A fund was set up and, as one knows, there has been an immediate and ready response. I am glad to think that this will be more than a local fund. I understand that an arrangement has been made for it to be a national Welsh fund, operated from Cardiff by the Lord Mayor of Cardiff. Whatever we collect from  Montgomery will go into the common fund, quite rightly, because disaster has hit Treforest and other places, too. But this fund will be but a tiny percentage of what is needed to cover the terrible loss which people have suffered. Can hon. Members imagine the circumstances of a man such as the one I have mentioned, who has lost his all? He is about my age, and now, after working hard all his life, he faces the future with everything gone. This is, therefore, a national problem requiring national treatment. I take housing first. I hope that the Government will accept not only that they must be generous, but that they owe a duty to these people which they can neither ignore nor avoid. What is more, whatever help these people receive will be refunded to the Government in the value of the produce which they will be able to bring forth in a very few weeks. I know that the Government are already acting in this matter. Whenever there is a shortage of resources in a local council to give help where it is needed, the Government have at once, almost by return of post, come to its assistance. But I want to know from the Minister what is the general scheme for help. These continuous floods which are hitting so many parts of our country concern us all, everywhere. We ought to have a national plan to deal with them. More important, perhaps, are plans for the future. As I have explained, the Severn does flood, and it floods almost anywhere. The worst I have known prior to the present floods occurred thirty years ago. Fortunately, I was then at home and able to help. All we could do was to send a telephone message, in response to which two boats were sent, so that two of us could row along what was then a sea—much more than a lake—miles long, going through the various places affected. A similar thing had to be done this time, but, fortunately, some provision has been made since then and help was available through Welshpool. The experience of the flooding Severn extends over centuries. I believe that the embankments along either side of the river were started in early Norman times. They are put well back from the river, but, of course, the river keeps changing its course, moving nearer to one and further from the other. So far   as we know, an effort was made to repair them and put them right in Tudor times again in Cromwellian times and, last of all, at the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth century. The embankment has fallen into a sad state of repair. Very often, gaps have been made, and these add to the trouble. When the river rises, the water goes through a gap and then, of course, it cannot return to the river itself because the embankment stands between it and the ordinary river bed. The first thing I ask is that a survey be made of the embankments to see what is needed and to put matters right. Incidentally, why is it that the very excellent Flood Prevention (Scotland) Bill is confined to Scotland? I see in the Explantory Memorandum that The Bill enables county councils and town councils in Scotland to take measures for the prevention or mitigation of flooding of land other than agricultural land"". I regret the addition of the words ""other than agricultural land"", and I should like to see them struck out. As I see it, it is an excellent Bill and there is no reason why it should not be extended to agricultural land, the duty being placed upon county councils and other councils to undertake responsibilities in flood prevention. I agree, however, that this would not deal with such a situation as arose this month. The powers of local authorities under such a Bill would relate only to the ordinary floods such as we have once or twice during the year. What is needed is something far greater, and I was very glad to hear the hon. Member for Fulham stress this. The strongest tributary of the Severn is the Vyrnwy, which enters the Severn just at the point before it crosses over into England at the Shropshire border. In the early 1880s, the Vyrnwy was blocked by the Liverpool Corporation and Lake Vyrnwy was created. This has had a very salutary effect in reducing the flooding of the Vyrnwy, which is the strongest stream flowing into the Severn all the way from its source to the point where it reaches the Bristol Channel. In about 1946 or 1947, this matter had been very much in the minds of our local people, especially the county council. I led a deputation from the county council  here to meet three Ministers, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Easington (Mr. Shinwell), who was then Minister of Fuel and Power, the late Mr. Aneurin Bevan, who was then Minister of Health, and Mr. Tom Williams, who was Minister of Agriculture. We put before them the idea that they should make a survey of the sources of the Severn. There are two strong streams which ultimately become the Severn. One is known as the Severn, which rises up in Plinlimmon, and the other is known as the Clywedog. Our proposal was that those rivers should be blocked in the same way as the Vyrnwy had been. Of course, the main idea in the minds of my people, who were all agriculturists, was the prevention of flooding, but we went on to say that, if that were done, we believed, though we had not the expert information available to the Government, that there would be sufficient water to supply any of the needs of South Wales or the industrial areas of England. Without a doubt, Mr. Bevan was very interested. He asked a great number of questions about the size of the lake and the volume of water which could be conserved. We pointed out that the conservation of water and the containing or disposal of surplus waters such as one has when floods come are very closely connected. If water is conserved in this way, one goes a long way towards preventing disasters such as have happened. We asked, also—this was why we were seeing the Minister of Fuel and Power—whether it would be possible for the surplus water coming from the two lakes, Which would be large lakes, very much larger than Lake Vyrnwy, to be used for providing electric power. There was then our case to the Minister of Agriculture. I know that the matter was looked into, but not very thoroughly, because there were more urgent things at that time which required the attention of the Government. Also, I expect that the amount of money involved was too great. I hope that the present Minister will look into the matter again. He has done a great deal with regard to the Severn Conservancy, and he is soon to receive its report. It may very well be   that the answer is to conserve the water of both the Clywedog and the Severn. I urge upon the Government that this is a matter which brooks of no delay. We do not know when such a disaster will occur again. As I have said, the last major one was thirty years ago, but this winter we may again be in trouble. I ask the Government to treat this matter as one of extreme urgency.
