gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel honoured at being called to speak in this House for the first time. As the Member for Cardigan, I succeed a very distinguished former Member in Mr. Roderic Bowen, a gentleman who gained the respect and affection of this House not only as the Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means in the last Parliament but also on account of close upon 21 years' industrious constituency work. I hope that I shall be able to emulate not only the quality of his constituency service, but, if one may be so bold, also the length of its tenure. I notice that Cardigan has for nearly 50 years been represented by members of the legal profession. The people of Cardiganshire have obviously not said, with St. Luke, Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of knowledge. For better, for worse, that tradition still remains unbroken. The county which I have the honour to represent has its origins far back in the history of the land and nation of Wales. Cardigan was created a county in 1284 and since the mid-16th century has returned Members to this House. In Cardiganshire we are people of proud and independent spirit. But today, pride and disillusion go hand in hand. Economically and socially speaking, the finest hours of the county were in the past. Since 1871 the population has been steadily declining. Today it is about 20,000 less than it was 100 years ago. Our county, too, loses the promise and the virility of its youth. About two-thirds of the young people of Cardiganshire leave the county by the time they reach 25 years of age. This situation can be well appreciated when it is realised that Cardigan, like four other counties in mid-Wales, has a level of income per head that is only 58 per cent. that of England and 72 per cent. that of the five poorest rural counties in England. The plight of Cardigan is not such as to command attention. There are no lengthy dole queues, no gloomy unemployment registers. Yet the steady, silent cancer of depopulation saps the life of nearly every town and village the length and breadth of the county. I have dwelt on these dismalities not only because it is traditional in a maiden   speech to give a sketch of one's constituency but also because I feel that they are genuinely relevant to this debate. Cardiganshire is a county with very little manufacturing industry, the main occupations being service industries and agriculture. Whatever the future might bring to Cardiganshire in the form of industrial development, there can be no doubt in broad terms but that the fate of the county hinges upon the future of its agriculture. In the main, the farms are small. Out of a total of 4,800 farming units in the county 1,900 are under 20 acres in area, whilst 2,100 are in the range of 20 to 100 acres. Whether these farms are economically viable or not depends to a large extent upon the prevailing economic conditions in so far and to such extent as those are regulated by central authority. Amalgamation by itself could be little better than amputative surgery. It cannot of itself be a cure to this situation. From what I know personally of the thrift, industry and courage of these small farmers, given certain incentives, I know that they can obtain a high level of efficiency and productivity. No doubt, there are some who have already decided to give up their holdings. In these cases the grants proposed under Clause 27 of the Bill are very proper and progressive. These people now leave the soil with something in pocket, whereas otherwise they would have left it penniless. On the other hand, there is substantial disquiet in many areas on this matter. Any suspicion of a policy of squeezing the small farmers into amalmation would eat like acid into the framework of a community like Cardiganshire. I hope that the Minister will give full assurance on this matter. These small farmers in my constituency will not remain as labourers on the land they once owned. There is virtually no manufacturing industry to assimilate them and it is unlikely that with consummate ease they could translate themselves into chefs, waiters or haberdashers' assistants. I feel sure that the Minister is well aware of the special problems of these people. There are problems of thin, sour soil, heavy rainfall and high production costs. A ton of cattle feed costs in Cardiganshire on average from £2 to £3 more than it costs in areas near the centres  of production. These higher costs are inevitable. The same is broadly true of many commodities. I am sure that the Minister agrees with me when I say that it is not enough for us to raise our hands in holy horror every few years when statistics are published to show what a high percentage of these farms are uneconomic. Is it not possible to look at the handicaps and consider how they can be combatted or at least compensated for? The rural development boards designed by the Bill are, I believe, an acknowledgement of the principle that the deficiencies of upland areas must be met by comprehensive planning and not by piecemeal assistance. I welcome these schemes and I sincerely trust that such a board will soon be established in Wales. May I add that I hope that the day may not be too far distant when responsibility and jurisdiction for agriculture in Wales will be transferred to the Secretary of State for Wales and the Welsh Office. There is one other matter which I should like to mention, and I will be very brief. It concerns security, or rather lack of security, of agricultural tenancies where an agricultural tenant dies. I appreciate that this Bill does not deal with the matter and that it is not the proper Measure to deal with such a topic. Nevertheless, it is an issue which is vital in its significance to agriculture. The Agricultural Holdings Act, 1948, has generally created a system which has safeguarded the tenure of the tenant farmer. That Act is a charter which marks the tremendous progress made since the days of our fathers and grandfathers when a tenant could be ejected from the land for the slightest transgression and, indeed, very often for none at all. He could be ejected at the merest whim of his landlord. There is a general feeling abroad among the public that all the anomalies and all the miseries which once attached themselves to agricultural tenancies have been abolished. But have they? In general there is security of tenure subject to the exercise of the discretion of the Agricultural Land Tribunal in special cases. The tenure of a farmer is protected in nearly all reasonable circumstances but that Section of the Act—Section 24—does not apply to seven   cases—the ""Seven Deadly Sins"" as lawyers call them. The first six of these deal with cases in which either the public interest clearly demands that the tenancy be surrendered, such as where the land is to be put to non-agricultural use and the appropriate planning authority has agreed to such a conversion, or in cases where the farmer tenant has brought about his own downfall, in cases in which he has been guilty of failing to farm according to the rules of good husbandry, in which he has not conformed to a notice to pay his rent in two months or in which he has failed within a reasonable time to put right some breach of his tenancy agreement or where the landlord's interest has been prejudicially affected by some irredeemable breach of tenancy or again where the tenant has become bankrupt. But in the seventh case there is a situation which is entirely different. It occurs when the original tenant has died. The landlord may serve notice to quit within three months, and the tenancy is terminated. There is no appeal, no matter how well the tenant or his family before him may have farmed. No matter to what degree he may have improved that farm, no matter what hardship may be incurred, if the landlord so ordains, then the death of the tenant means the destruction of the tenancy. Let me be quite fair. Actual objection no doubt occurs only in a small percentage of cases. In many instances a new tenancy can be negotiated, sometimes on equitable and no doubt honourable terms but sometimes on terms which are scandalously oppressive—conditions very often arrived at after weeks of dread anxiety before a decision is reached. Nearly half of the agricultural land of England and Wales is farmed by tenant farmers. Over one-third of these, 100,000 individuals, are private tenants. Not one of these has such a lease over his life as to be able to know with absolute certainty that he will be alive, say, at the stroke of midnight tonight. The system under which these people live is unjust for it re-enacts, I submit, the crudity of a bygone age. It is inconsistent with our own standards in similar fields. Why, in the name of reason, should a farmer's tenancy be  only one heart-beat away from extinction when the Rent Act, 1965, properly and generously affords long-term security to the tenancy of a private dwelling house? The system is also wasteful. Which tenant farmer can give of his best unto his land if he knows that all the sweat, all the capital and all the hope which have been invested in the soil can be lost in a moment at the instant of death? It is not conducive to progressive agriculture. Old men cling to land which the young should farm because the landlord will not allow the tenancy to be transferred. There can be no real long-term planning because there is no long-term security. I have mentioned this matter in the earnest and sincere hope that the Minister will at some stage consider a form of probationary tenancy for the proper successor of a deceased agricultural tenant, placing upon that successor the onus of showing at the end of such a probationary term that he has farmed according to the rules of good husbandry and that he is capable of attaining such standards in the future. The landlord would not be ill-used, agriculture in general would benefit and an unjust, wasteful, inconsistent anomaly would have been removed from among the laws of our land.
