gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel exactly as did my hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Mr. R. Lewis); I now know what ""butterflies in the tummy"" really mean, although I have spoken on probably thousands of occasions in different circumstances. I want to speak on aspects of the Queen's Speech which I consider to be of importance to the people of Merseyside, and particularly to those whom I represent. The Gracious Speech says: Our industries will be helped to gain the full benefits of advances in scientific research and applied technology. Central and regional plans to promote economic development, with special reference to the needs of the under-employed areas of the country, are being prepared. Merseyside has long been an underemployed area. I do not want to be controversial, but the hon. Member for Harwich (Mr. Rids-dale) has said that we have full employment. At this very moment there are 24,000 people unemployed on Merseyside. In 1959, when the Conservative Government came in, we had 26,000 unemployed, so the numbers have been reduced by only 2,000 in five years. This despite the fact that industry was brought to Merseyside, or induced to go there—firms such as Fords and Vauxhalls—which gave a certain measure of marginal employment. Although industry has been brought to Merseyside the number of unemployed has remained approximately the same; there has been an almost static situation in the area. This is not good enough for the people of Merseyside. The planning officer of Liverpool City Council, in an interesting and important survey of future employment needs of Merseyside, pointed out that we require approximately 10,000 new jobs per year in the area. Obviously we have to tackle the needs of areas such as this in a special way. We have special problems which have arisen because in the past there have not been facilities for the people to get necessary training in various skills. We have a dearth of unskilled and semiskilled labour on Merseyside. We require special measures so that they may have training necessary for the various industries there. Not only are there 24,000 unemployed on Merseyside but the Merseyside and   Lancashire Industrial Development Association Report says that since 1951 more than 42,000 have moved out of the North-West Region. This drift shows that the numbers of unemployed would have been even greater if they had not been forced to seek employment in other parts of the country. Two things are needed for Merseyside. We need a crash programme to make certain that those now unemployed shall be given an opportunity of immediate employment before we take long-term steps to ensure the planned development of industry in that area. There is not only the need for economic planning but for physical planning. The two must be integrated. It is essential, to create full employment in the area, to ensure full economic development and that the physical planning and economic planning go hand in hand. If that is not done we shall not get a proper balance on Merseyside. We need a number of important things. Much is heard about the Channel Tunnel. I can assure the House that people on Merseyside would be far happier if we heard more talk about a second crossing of the River Mersey. We could then leave the question of a Channel Tunnel as something to be considered in the future. We need an integrated transport system on Merseyside. I was delighted to hear the statement by the Minister of Transport this afternoon. I was pleased that he could now clearly indicate that, for example, the Southport—Liverpool railway line is likely to be saved, at least until we have some form of integrated transport system. The Wigan line is an example of how one Department of the previous Government obviously did not know what another Department was doing. That line goes through Skelmersdale, which is a new town. We are hoping to get people to go from Merseyside to Skelmersdale, but there is only one railway line and the Beeching Plan proposed to close it. This is an example of complete chaos and lack of planning. Modernisation of the building industry is very vital to the people of Merseyside. Two aspects of this question need to be brought out. We need to develop methods which will ensure continuous production in building, in the winter as well as in the summer. We have not  yet got to grips with this problem. We also need to make greater use of industrial techniques. Modernisation of the building industry is not merely a question of the use of new industrial techniques and not merely one of new plant. Something else is required—the needs of the operatives have to be taken into consideration in any modernisation plans. As a building operative I know that, despite the welfare code, there are still many firms which operate the same type of conditions as were written about in the book ""The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists"". It is high time that such things were completely eliminated from the industry. We need to make certain when talking of modernisation that the question of decasualisation in the industry is considered. The unions have something to consider in that connection. It is quite wrong that operatives have no real measure of security for their future. It is also important that methods of training of apprentices should be changed. Unfortunately, there are still too many apprentices taken on because a father talks to the next-door neighbour over the garden wall and finds that his son could get a good job with the local plumber. Although youth employment officers are doing a good job, there is not a proper approach to apprenticeship in the industry. If we are really interested in modernisation we must realise that these matters are of vital importance and should be taken into consideration by the Government. Returning to my original point about regional boards, I pose the question of whether Merseyside should be considered as a region or as part of the North-West. We are a regional centre and we have regional conditions. When considering regional boards we should look at the problem of Merseyside in a regional context. I ask the Government to look at that question when the new boards are developed.
