gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with all the usual diffidence and I crave the generosity of the House for a few minutes of patience for a new Member. At the outset, I wish to pay tribute to the generosity that I and other new Members have already experienced from the ""old hands"" in the corridors and the smoke room. They have made our introduction here so much easier. If Providence and a kindly electorate decree that I should be returned in another Parliament, I can only hope that I may show the same generosity to other new Members as has been extended to me and to other colleagues during the past few days. I crave the generosity of the House to speak for a few minutes on the Gracious Speech. I am one of those who take hope from the penultimate paragraph: Other measures will be laid before you if time permits …. I am one of those who are concerned because the very important problem of housing has been left out of the Gracious Speech. I hope that does not mean that it is not now considered to be a number one priority. I hope that while there are homeless people in this country this question of housing will always be considered as a number one priority. During the two years since I was selected as Conservative candidate for Wembley North, it has been my privilege and pleasure to go to many houses in my constituency. In recent months I went to one part of the constituency where a number of people are living in huts. I sought the co-operation of one householder and asked if I might enter that hut to see the conditions in which  these people lived. The conditions were heart-rending, particularly so when one lady said to me, ""You see, I have two small children and I am expecting another in June."" Pathetically she added, ""And I don't want to see it born here."" I could only join in that sentiment. On my election platform I said—and it is my sincere belief—that it is the desire of everyone in this House to see this problem solved. I say that it is not a political problem and that is why in my maiden speech I ask that all opportunities be taken and that the Minister of Health seek the help of the building industry. Cannot we once again ask the builders to set the pace so that more houses can be built? Is the shortage of timber the limiting factor? Is it beyond the genius of this House to find a substitute material for timber? Only the other day I read that the right hon. Member for Streatham (Mr. Sandys) had in 1944 considered the possibility of a substitute for timber in the building of houses. Cannot we explore further along this avenue? Cannot we have regard to building costs today? That is a very important factor. Could not we consider whether the Minister of Health should implement that Section of the 1936 Housing Act which enables him to give power to local authorities to sell municipal houses to sitting tenants? I suggest that that would greatly ease the financial burden which we face today in connection with the problem of housing. As one who has enjoyed some responsibility in local government affairs for 20 years, I am a little concerned that no mention is made of the possibility of the reform of local government. I believe that this is an unsettling influence, and I think it is one of the problems to which this House within the space of this Parliament might reasonably apply its deliberations. I am considerably concerned at the growth of crime, particularly in these last few months and particularly within the Metropolitan area. We have heard tributes paid to our women, and yet we know that today many women are afraid to remain alone in their houses at night or even to traverse the King's public highway. I read with interest in one of the Sunday papers an article by the hon. Member for Croydon, East (Sir H. Williams) in which he suggested—and I agree with him—that we should consider   the re-introduction of flogging and the cat for those hooligans who lie in wait for and attack women in this country. I realise the peculiar circumstances in which this House finds itself, but surely in those very circumstances we have our opportunity. If we can forget some of the political prejudices and go forward in this 39th Parliament, I think that before we go to the electorate on the next occasion, we may justifiably claim to have solved some of the problems which face us today.
