gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope I may ask the Committee for the indulgence which by kindly tradition is usually given to those who are privileged to address the House for the first time. As the lack of dollars appears to be one of the main reasons for our economic difficulties and for the stringent measures my right hon. Friend has been forced to take in order to deal with them, I hope I shall not find it difficult to observe the usual custom of not saying anything unduly controversial in a maiden speech if I address myself mainly to this question of trying to earn more dollars. To my simple mind, the best way to get something is to earn more, and I shall confine myself particularly to the question of earning dollars through trade with Canada. If I may excuse myself for doing that, it is on the grounds that I lived in Canada for several years and am constantly getting letters from Canadian friends expressing great concern at the falling off of their exports to us and also of their fear of being driven under the economic domination of the United States. I hope, Mr. Bowles, you will not find I am straying too far from the subject of the speech of my right hon. Friend if I speak almost entirely of Canada. It is perhaps a happy coincidence that my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Roxburgh and Selkirk (Commander Donaldson) is, I believe, seeking to catch your eye later in the debate. It is a coincidence because we both lived for many years in the same Province of Canada, British Columbia. As the Committee know, my right hon. Friend has found it necessary to attempt to check the drain on our gold and dollars by drastic restrictions of our imports. I think he is following the example of his predecessors, and it would ill-become me to try to criticise the inevitable, even if one of our best friends, Canada, has been badly hurt in the process. Canadians feel that we are making a mistake in trying to maintain our trade with Canada at too low a level. They think we are concentrating too much on saving and doing too little about earning more. They feel also that we are perhaps unduly concerned in making the sterling area self-supporting, while leaving Canada out in the cold. They think we are trying to produce goods, artificially and on a non-economic basis, in the sterling area which they can already supply, and they feel it would be much more sensible if we concentrated more on producing in the sterling area those things for which it is best suited and selling them in turn to Canada for dollars and using those dollars to buy Canadian products which they want to sell. Perhaps I might illustrate my meaning by referring to a project which I believe is now under review, that of producing pig products and beef in British Honduras. British Honduras also happens to produce, and produce very well, bananas, and Canadians would be more than pleased to buy greatly increased quantities of bananas from British Honduras. If that were done, dollars would be earned and could be used to buy Canadian beef. I do not think anyone would seriously suggest that Canada is not a very much better country to raise beef cattle than anywhere in the tropics. I could, of course, mention many other commodities produced in the sterling area which Canada would very gladly buy. The Committee, of course, are fully aware that Canada wants us to do business with them and they want to buy our goods. But we are equally aware that the Canadian market is perhaps one of the most highly competitive in the world. The way to get that market is to go out there and produce the sort of things Canadians want, even if that means taking risks. I am told by Canadian friends, and I should like to emphasise the point, that there is an immense demand in Canada today for, components of goods in common use in that country which they would gladly buy if we would make them. I think we ought to take the further risk of maintaining stocks so as to ensure quick delivery and of maintaining a supply of spare parts on the other side of the Atlantic. I have in my own mind some doubt as to the efforts our businessmen are making to break into the Canadian market. It is a fact that between the years 1947 and 1951 the Treasury allowed an expenditure of£10 million for business travel to the United States and during the same period only allowed, or rather only£4,100,000 was taken, for business travel in Canada; a sum equal to the amount allowed for what is called personal travel in the United States of America. I would suggest that that item of dollar expenditure might well bear investigation. The fact is that, although we spent less than half as much to try to get Canadian business, in those five 'years we did export£456 million worth of goods to Canada and only£420 million worth to the United States. It seems to me that if we had spent in business travel in Canada that extra amount of money used for personal travel in the United States, there would have been a reasonable chance of getting more business and selling more exports, because Canada is today the biggest importer of manufactured products in the world. We all know that businessmen need some inducement other than exhortation to try to break into this difficult market. As we on this side of the Committee, at any rate, are constantly preaching the virtues of a spirit of adventure and competitive enterprise and believe they should reap their just reward. I would appeal to my right hon. Friend to see if he can devise some method of giving increased   incentives to our manufacturers to get into the Canadian market. Although I suppose this would not really come under his Department, perhaps some preferential treatment in the allocation of raw materials might be made for Anglo-Canadian trade. Or perhaps there might be even a system whereby firms which are successful in earning dollars might be allowed to retain a small proportion of those dollars to use at their own discretion. My right hon. Friend the Member for Blackburn, West (Mr. Assheton) did refer to the British Commonwealth. In these days I often hear reference made to increased trade with the British Commonwealth and then, in the same breath, we are told that we must take the lead in this country in the expansion of the sterling area. But those are not precisely similar things. I believe, whatever the attractions of the sterling area, that we should be making a great mistake if we shut ourselves off from the huge and ever growing markets of Canada which is, after all, the largest and, at any rate potentially, the richest member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. I believe that if we do shut ourselves off in such a way, we shall not only dissipate that immense fund of goodwill which still—I sometimes think rather surprisingly—exists towards us, but we shall drive Canada into the arms of the United States. It is perhaps quite significant that Canada is today rapidly becoming a country inhabited by people of non-British origin and, although in 1926 the British share of foreign investment in Canada came to 45 per cent., today it is only 16 per cent.; whereas that of the United States is 80 per cent. I believe it is possible to maintain trade with Canada on a much higher level and that that would be a step of inestimable value to both countries. It would at the same time preserve the solidarity of the British Commonwealth on whose strength the peace and prosperity of the world so largely depends.
