gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The right hon. Member for Sutton Coldfield (Mr. Geoffrey Lloyd), in his very vivid moment just now, offered to declare Parliamentary war on Bristol and Liverpool. I cannot speak for Bristol, but I can certainly speak for at least one part of Liverpool, and would remind him of the results of a little Parliamentary warfare that we had there only recently. The tradition of the House is that new Members coming here should be seen but not heard. So for four weeks I have sat silent and kept vigil on the back benches in face of what has been the most provocative series of debates that I have ever listened to. It has not been my normal practice to keep so silent. I have surprised not only my friends at home, but myself. But enough is enough this morning, particularly because Liverpool has been singled out by so many who have spoken. My predecessor here is well known to right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite—Mr. John V. Woollam, who was a Member for 13 years. He was a loyal supporter of the Tory Party, and I think that is the reason why I am in his place today. I am sure that hon. Members would wish me to convey their good wishes to him. He is well, and prospering. He is not in need of National Assistance, and so on, about which the House has talked recently. I have no doubt that, in spite of certain local difficulties that we had during the election, we shall meet again on various occasions. Mr. Woollam is one of my constituents now, and there are no hard feelings about it. Another of my constituents is a Member well known to all hon. and right hon. Gentlemen. I refer to my hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, Exchange (Mrs. Braddock), who has been here for some years. Another colleague of mine from Merseyside is my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, who at one time represented part of my constituency. It is customary, in a maiden speech, to refer to and praise not only the constituency that one has the honour to represent, but also one's constituents. All I have to say in this case is that my constituency is West Derby and the name of the city is Liverpool, and in this day and generation the one word ""Liverpool"" is a speech in itself. Liverpool is a great city. It is a great place to live in. It has great needs. It has great achievements. I am delighted to notice that the right hon. and learned Member for St. Marylebone (Mr. Hogg) has just returned to the Chamber. I will remind him of remarks that he made on his last visit to my constituency. Because we had a Socialist-controlled council, he described us as ""a wretched city"". What he said when he heard the Liverpool results in the General Election I hesitate to think.
