gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful to you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for calling upon me this afternoon. This is the first time I  have had the pleasure of speaking in this honourable House and I crave the indulgence of my colleagues. I represent a constituency which is unique—or which can be unique. It certainly has characteristics which have distinguished it from other constituencies ever since the time when it emerged from the bottom of the North Sea and formed itself into an island at the mouth of the river. It is Great Yarmouth, and I would call the attention of HON. MEMBERS to the ""Great."" It is the leading fishing port in England for herrings. We have been told that half the herring catch is made by the English. A great deal of the other half, which is caught by the Scots, is actually caught off Yarmouth. Yarmouth has been a very famous herring port for many centuries. In fact, it is the one constituency which has given its name to one special kind of fish, treated there in a way that only Yarmouth knows how. Who has not heard of the Yarmouth bloater? Its qualities have been appreciated for a very long time. Our town had a very familiar association with King John. It was the place at which Nelson chose to land when he brought Lady Hamilton back to this country. During the war, standing so near to the enemy, Yarmouth became the most often raided town in our land. Lastly, not to be outdone by many other constituencies who have found ""G.I."" brides for our friends from America, Yarmouth is the only constituency in the country which has provided a ""G.I."" bridegroom. I propose to make a special plea for this unique constituency. We have heard from the Minister of Agriculture that the fishing industry was very favourably placed before the war, and has good prospects in the postwar period. The trawlers and the men are coming back into it, and we have almost reached the 100 per cent, mark of the fishing industry before the war. Yarmouth was in a bad condition even before the war started. If we got back to 100 per cent of the men, 100 per cent of the industry and 100 per cent of the herring caught, we should still be in a parlous plight. As far as I can gather, the only year when Yarmouth was back to its old eminence as the premier herring port of the country was about the year, 1926 when we   were fortunate enough to have an agreement with our Russian friends and Allies. The agreement lasted only one year. Yarmouth has done very badly ever since. There is nothing to beat the herring for sustenance and nourishment. Scientists have proved in our day, just as our forefathers did in theirs, what a good thing a herring can be. The people on the Continent of Europe are aware of that fact. They have had their Yarmouth herrings for centuries. We do not seem to remember that fact in these days of austerity. We are told that people will starve on the Continent, yet the herring can be one of the foods that would save them, and save us all. The Government, which I support, should take the initiative and try to recapture some of the old markets for my constituency, such as it used to have in the old days. Let us try to bring the herring industry to the forefront in England. It is well looked after in Scotland. Let us try to restore it to its former prosperity here, because it can help us in this time of food shortage, as it can help the Continent of Europe. Some days ago, workers in one of the factories in the town were showing me .how herrings are smoked, chiefly for our customers in the Mediterranean. I was told that one firm in Yarmouth had received an offer from its Italian clients that if we could send them smoked herrings, which is a part of their staple diet, they would be willing to send us some kind of prepared tomato which would be a welcome addition to the food supply of this country. We here could do very well with those tomatoes. They would help the Minister in his comprehensive programme of food control. I am told that there is plenty of scope for that kind of development, and I hope that the Government will think about these matters and will show initiative in building up these peaceful avenues of trade. In the few minutes now left to me I want to refer to refrigeration. Mention has already been made of the fact that we have one of the best freezing plants, which has been working to capacity on the herring catch. That is something that we should maintain, and we hope it will spread to other ports, so that we can not only use the catch we get, but can take  action to abolish that idiotic phenomenon, the glut. There should not be gluts. Food should be conserved, especially in the present situation. Freezing is one of the processes by which that can be done. The only snag, as far as I can see, is that it is rather cumbersome and takes a great deal of space, but we are using it in my constituency, when the catches come in well. There is another aspect of the matter —canning, which ought to be given more consideration in this country now than it has received in the past. When I was a staff officer with S.H.A.E.F. I became accustomed to using a fork and eating food which always came out of tins. The food was none the worse for that. It is a practice which we should cultivate. When housewives want to economise work in their utility kitchens, and there is a dearth of domestic servants, we ought to concentrate upon tinned foods. In my opinion, the best tinned fish to eat with fresh salad is a Yarmouth herring. We can eat it in October or November and enjoy it, especially if we do a deal with those Italians, and sit down to herring and tomatoes. My poor little town — I put it in that way because it has been badly knocked about during the war— has many gaps. The condition of our homes is deplorable, and the town has a forlorn air, standing there on the edge of the North Sea, driven by the North Sea wind. That is how I feel when I have to go out and address constituents. Nevertheless, Yarmouth stands on the edge of a rich agricultural district. We all know that Norfolk, Suffolk and Cambridgeshire provide agricultural produce, and there is already a canning industry. Why cannot the Ministry of Food and other Ministries combine to see that a stable level of employment is kept up in the canning industry by ensuring that canning is done according to season, with vegetables, fruit and fish —That would help to spread out the work in that industry, which tends to be seasonal in character. I thank you again, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for calling upon me. I shall now resume my seat, in the hope that I may be fortunate in catching your eye again.
