gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise in some trepidation as the third maiden speaker within an hour and I understand that I have the unusual privilege of having to congratulate the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Michael Heseltine) on his maiden speech. This presents something of a difficulty, because, although I have met the hon. Gentleman occasionally in the Lobby, I have not the pleasure of his acquaintance, but I congratulate him on getting over the hurdle to which I am coming closer each moment. I must also pay tribute briefly to my predecessor, then Sir Samuel Storey. I appear as Member for Stretford and I think that many hon. Members will recall that my predecessor, Mr. Deputy Speaker, was the incumbent in that Chair in the position that you now hold when he was a Member of the House. He was in the House for a long time and served it with a distinction that was recognised by the honour it bestowed upon him. I have since heard with pleasure that he has been translated to another place and has recently taken his  seat. Therefore, we have the happy situation of both victor and vanquished returning to Westminster. Now I want to make a few remarks actually upon the Bill. According to my notes, I am not in favour of the Amendment. But I am strongly in favour of the Bill, particularly of the provisions in Part I, because I think that, if they are to succeed they have to make—and will make—an impact on the people in that they will recognise that the real success of any incomes policy has to rest upon our willingness to accept self-discipline. That, the first part of the Bill makes clear. There are no coercive passages in it. It places the responsibility for sensible economic behaviour firmly on our shoulders, whether as individuals or as members of a group—as trade unionists, as consumers, as managers or any other kind of group. One of the duties and consequences of the activities of the Prices and Incomes Board will be to educate us in the economic facts of life. When each of us, in whatever section of the community we stand, like Oliver Twist asks for more, then, instead of being crushed by the big stick of unemployment which some of us and our fathers remember, we shall have to put a reasoned case—which is a much more civilised and sensible manner in which to tackle this problem. The reports of the Board will be exposing 1-o the public gaze financial matters which are at present not so exposed, particularly arrangements for determining prices. This will extend the principle of public accountability into the private sector of the economy on a much wider scale than hitherto and it will be entirely beneficial. Anyone Wr.doubts that should reflect on the salutary effect that public scrutiny has on the use of public funds both at local and national level. The distinction frequently drawn between public money and the public's money is an entirely arbitrary one and, as a result of the activity of the Board, under the Bill we see that distinction washed away. I applaud the way in which the Bill embodies the twin principles of personal responsibility and public accountability and I am glad that, in continuing to hammer home these ideas which my right hon. Friend the First Secretary of State   has been advocating so vigorously in the last 18 months, he placed today greater emphasis on the Board's work on prices than has apparently reached the public, at any rate in my constituency. This aspect of the Board's activities has been somewhat obscured by the debates centreing around wages and salaries and the position of the unions. That is a great pity because, during the last 18 months, a great deal has been done which the housewives in particular will very much appreciate. Anyone who has looked recently at the ordinary grocery prices in the shops will see that they have been very steady over the last 18 months. If anyone cares to consult the June issue of Which? he will see that laid out for him. If we are to enlist the support of the general public for this policy—and it depends very much on the participation of the individual—my right hon. Friend should take every step he can to take the public into his confidence. Not everyone goes into Her Majesty's Stationery Office to buy reports; nor does everyone read White Papers—that is something of a professional risk. Perhaps my right hon. Friend might take some trouble to see that simplified and condensed versions of the Board's findings find their way into prominent position in our popular daily newspapers. I must confess that I am pleased that Part II of the Bill will not easily be brought into operation. Having supported the voluntary principle in the first part of the Bill, I should like the trade unions and other interested bodies to have the opportunity to formulate a voluntary scheme of early warning and standstill. On the other hand, having said that, I am convinced that if such a satisfactory scheme is not forthcoming, the First Secretary will have no alternative but to introduce Part II with all that that implies. It is quite clear that an early warning system is necessary for both prices and incomes and, equally, it is absolutely necessary to protect the Board from undue pressures while it is deliberating on references made to it. Several trade union branches in my constituency have expressed disquiet about the penalties included in the Bill to protect the Board during a standstill. I recognise that these provisions were bound to cause a certain amount of dis-  quiet, but I have frequently found that members of those trade union branches, who otherwise give full support to the Government's prices and incomes policy in general, have come to believe in some curious way that the penalties are directed against them as trade unionists. That is not a fair reading of the Bill. If we are to have a Board to which references are made, it must be protected from undue influences while it is deliberating, whether those influences come from a manufacturer, a trade union, or other interested bodies, in a manner rather analogous to the way in which law courts are protected from undue influence while a matter is sub judice. The minority of my trade union colleagues who are upset about these provisions might regard that as one way of looking at this problem, which would put it into a better perspective than has been the case with some arguments which I have heard in the House and outside it. I welcome the Bill as part of the Government's general economic policy which aims at planned growth of income together with full employment. I am glad to have had the opportunity to support the Bill in the House and to have taken part in the debate.
