gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Sir, for allowing me to catch your eye and to join in this debate. This is the first occasion on which I have addressed you and I therefore ask the   indulgence of the House should I, inadvertently, be guilty of any shortcomings. The housing question concerns us all in greater or less degree. We owe a debt to our constituents, whether we come from Leeds or from one of the London divisions, which seem to have been entirely overlooked by the hon. Lady the Member for Leeds, North-East (Miss Bacon). We have our difficulties in London just as have any of the great cities, but the hon. Lady left them entirely out of account, probably inadvertently. When we face this problem, despite the fact that on most matters strong differences of opinion divide the two sides of the House, we should put aside our differences and try to work together to find a solution to this dread problem. When we consider the utter misery and great distress which lies all around us we must come to the determination that, over the next few years by one means or another, we must provide such a number of houses as will secure that every family shall have a home of their own. If we rest content with 200,000 a year, even although that number has not been attained over the last few years, it will stamp us as a nation which has lost the characteristics which made us great throughout the ages. It will do more: it will stamp us as a nation which has lost faith in itself. To build 200,000 houses will not bring about the alteration which is required. This was emphasised by the hon. Lady the Member for Leeds, North-East. If the trouble is as great in Leeds as it appears to be from the hon. Lady's speech, and I am sure it is, the requirements of the capital investment programme must not dictate that we must never raise our eyes above the target of 200,000 houses. I am not at all impressed by that argument. Apart from the difficulties that we have to face now, conditions get worse and worse as the years go by. The latest returns available from the Registrar-General show that there were 357,218 marriages in 1950. During the same period only 198,171 houses were built. At first sight it would appear that each year some 150,000 newly married couples have no homes in which to start their new life. The picture is not quite as bad as that because a considerable number through various circumstances, are able to find a  home of their own without having to put their names on a housing list. The fact remains that a considerable number are still dependent upon new building for their new homes. The position is that a problem faces us now, and it seems that each year that passes the problem will be accentuated by the addition of at least 100,000 newly married couples who must rely upon new building for their homes. I come to this Parliament as the representative of the citizens of South Battersea. While I do not for a moment suggest—I dare not do so in view of what has been said by the hon. Lady the Member for Leeds, North-East—that conditions there are worse than in many other parts of the country, they are so bad that they must be altered, and they must be altered quickly. I have experienced the unhappiness, misery and distress in a part of London which was not considered very good in the days when I was there, the neighbourhood of the Old Kent Road. Unhappiness and distress existed there to a most marked degree before the First World War and also between the two wars, but bad as conditions were then—and they were bad indeed—improvements took shape year by year before our very eyes. With all humility, I hope I might say that I have been instrumental in bringing about some of those improvements. My father was a medical practitioner in the Old Kent Road for nearly 60 years, and I was brought up in that neighbourhood, and I am not ashamed of it. I have benefited by the experience gained there. In the course of the social work that I was privileged to be able to do in that area, I came to know exactly what the conditions were in that part of South London. But these conditions are being duplicated in the Borough of Battersea today, and certainly in South Battersea, which is by comparison what one could call a ""good"" neighbourhood. The distress and anxiety, the insanitary conditions, the hopelessness and frustration of so many people and the danger of broken marriages are such that when I compare this state of affairs with what I remember when I lived in the neighbourhood of the Old Kent Road I am led to believe that conditions are as had in many parts of South Battersea today   as they were in South London in the so-called bad old days. The trouble is that so far from our being able to see any improvement at all, conditions get worse and worse as the days go by. In these circumstances, something must be done. We on this side of the House are determined that something shall be done, and we have been encouraged by the pronouncements of my right hon. Friend today, for they have brought a great deal of hope to us all. An attempt has been made to make some capital out of something which was said by my right hon. Friend this afternoon, but it should be known what my hon. Friends and I know, that 300,000 houses is our aim. We shall achieve it and we shall surpass it. My right hon. Friend's pronouncements this afternoon give us great hope, and those engaged in the building industry will be pleased to know that they will at last have freedom to do that which they have longed to do through six long weary years. To provide homes for all who want them is a great ideal. We shall strive to attain it, and we shall attain it. To build 300,000 houses and more in a year in present circumstances is a gigantic task and a challenge to us all. With full knowledge of the difficulties, we accept that challenge. Any and every obstacle in the path of progress can be overcome provided that we bring to the task good will, determination and great faith. My right hon. Friend has demonstrated quite clearly this afternoon that he has those virtues in plenty, and so have we all. Let us exercise those virtues to the full, having great faith in our ability to overcome all the difficulties and great determination that this social evil shall be banished from our midst, and then we can look forward to the future with a certain amount of justified confidence. Further than that, if we keep our aim high we shall at least be able to face our constituents and say that we are doing the best that is in us.
