gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address myself to the Questions raised by the Gracious Speech because apparently I am what has been described by one of my local newspapers, as ""the Pooh-Bah of a one-man band."" I speak with considerably more feeling, having listened to the speeches of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Eccles) and of the right hon. Gentleman the Member   for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) because I am uncompromisingly a Socialist and am confirmed in that opinion by what I have heard this morning. In the remarks made at the opening of to-day's Debate by the right hon. Gentleman the hon. Member for Saffron Walden, he gave us a rather pretty little story about clothing certain waxworks. It brought to my memory a strange dream I had when I was quite young. I dreamt that I suddenly appeared on a vast plain, a great bare plain, and that in the distance a mighty concourse of people started to come towards me. As they gradually came nearer I saw that it was a concourse of clergymen, and just as they were reaching me I realised to my horror that, as was my custom, I had gone to bed without my pyjama trousers, and I was appearing before the clergy, clad only in my jacket. The leader of the concourse asked me, in grave terms, where were my pyjama trousers, and I had to tell him that it was my habit, whenever I wore pyjamas, not to have my trousers on. Had I been the wearer of a nightshirt, I feel that they would probably have sent me to the back of the queue. That is rather what I feel about the Gracious Speech. It is true that there is the possibility of distinguishing between the document which was waved by the opener of to-day's Debate and the Gracious Speech. Every Member on the Government benches affirmed, I hope, his belief in Socialism during the campaign from which the Government have just emerged victorious. I, as a Socialist, must say this in the first instance: that as I look round at this very changed House, I welcome the fact that, for the first time in the history of this Parliament we have a Parliament which has been elected on a Socialist programme, and that there has been formed a Socialist Government with such a magnificent majority. I welcome, too, the fact that we have heard speeches from young Members of that party, young in idea, spirit and vigour, who showed considerable competence as speakers and debaters. Hope for England lies in those young men who sit on the Government benches. I know that the Gracious Speech was prepared at a time when events were moving at a pace greater than any single brain could possibly cope with. Further,  I feel that the very Election which has returned us to this House, came as a very considerable surprise in its results, to many of those who are now sitting in the Chamber. The sudden announcement of the destructive power of the splitting of an atom of uranium, caused not only the end of the war against Japan, but gave us an insight into the productive possibilities of that tremendous scientific achievement. Were I a coal owner I feel that I would be going to the Labour Party saying, ""Please will you buy my shares as quickly as possible, because if this Government and the Governments of the world are prepared to spend as much on research into the productive possibilities of splitting the atom as, of necessity, was spent on research into its destructive possibilities I feel that it is quite possible that in 10, 15 or 20 years' time coal, as a source of power, hear and energy, will be redundant and superfluous in this country."" Even so, I am glad to see that coal is one of the high priorities in the programme of this Government, because whatever the opinion of the hon. Member for Chippenham may be about the economic situation, there is no doubt in my mind and, I am certain, in the minds of Members of the Government, about the individual economic circumstances of the men who toil and sweat in the mines. It is because a Socialist Administration puts before all things the consideration of the individual human being that I welcome the fact that they have put coal as their highest priority, but I grieve, because of these great changes, to find that there is no specific note in the Gracious Speech as to the Government having any intention of exercising more than a vaguely worded control over the great chemical industry, I.C.I. Ltd., a senior representative of which was a member of our Council which went to America to investigate the possibilities of an atomic bomb. I would urge the Government to use the opportunity which is now before them, the opportunity that the people of the country have given them, to work forward as quickly as they possibly can, towards the Socialist State to which they are pledged. One of the earnests which the Government can give to the people of their understanding of the historic situation in which they have come to power,   one way in which they can show that they understand the horror that has been aroused in the minds of men of good will by the fact that it is possible to exterminate a whole town by one small bomb, is for them to get industrial control over that great potential weapon of production, and see that it is put into the hands of the people of this State. I listened with interest to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) yesterday, in which he made a case for the desirability of leaving the final details of this invention in the exclusive hands of the Government of America. I personally cannot accept that argument. I feel that this Government positively must take that tremendous weapon of power out of the hands of any one Government in the world, that it must be in the possession of all the people of the world and that the first thing that must be done is to see that research, ownership and all the secrets of that weapon shall be vested in some such organisation as a committee of the United Nations. There is another point which is urgent and vital. A month ago the phraseology in the Gracious Speech with regard to foreign affairs would have met the situation. But during the last month tremendous things have happened throughout the world. Now, the immediate and urgent task of His Majesty's Government is to say to the people of the world, ""It is our intention to do all we possibly can to lead the peoples of Europe into a federation and to create a world State in which economic and military differences can be settled by conferences instead of, finally, by resort to arms."" This is the opportunity of this Government, an opportunity which is being looked at with tremendous interest and agitation by new forces that are forming Governments wherever they are being allowed throughout the Continent of Europe. The Government Front Bench have a tremendous moral responsibility to do just the things in regard to which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford criticised the Chairman of the Labour Party Executive Committee for saying, admittedly as a private individual, that the time had come when we and France have to be one nation, that we and the people of Europe have to be one people and that we and the people of the world have to be one people. The opportunity is now, because I do not believe that the people of this country gave a nebulous anti-Tory vote. I believe they understood the programme which was set out in the Socialist document, ""Let Us Face The Future."" They realised the implications of the fact that the only way in which we can create a Britain that deserves to lead the nations of the world is to work towards Socialism. There was published this week in one of the great national dailies the result of a Gallup poll. Some people say that this method of assessing public opinion is not a particularly skilful one, but I would bring to the attention of the House the extreme success—which any bookmaker would envy—of their forecast of the result of the General Election. That Gallup poll—and I do urge hon. Members to take it to heart—stated that 52 per cent. of the people of this country demanded from this Government drastic social changes. The word ""revolution"" is in the minds of some of the people—the majority of the people of this country—and it is the responsibility of the Government to give them that revolution, because that way alone lies progress for the people of this country and the people of the world. May I ask two questions? I listened with extreme interest to the right hon. Member for Woodford, who gave us an alarming picture of the ""police States"" throughout the Balkans, and in some other parts of the Continent of Europe. His dramatic knocking on the Despatch Box brought home to the minds of us what does happen. While he was talking, I thought to myself, ""Surely the right hon. Gentleman is thinking about Greece, our ancient Ally, the prototype now of all police States, whose Government has put this year into prison, without trial, 17,300 people for doing no more than fighting our struggles against Nazi domination during the course of the war."" This is the Government which in the past derived support from the Government of Great Britain when we were in Coalition, and this is a Government which receives no support from any accredited democratic institution throughout the whole of the country of Greece. His Majesty's Government to-day must realise that fact. They must realise the responsibility that the British people owe to the Greek people. His Majesty's Government must do all that it possibly can in deeds, and   not merely in fulsome and specious words, to give every possible opportunity for the freely expressed will through some democratic machinery of the Greek people, to prevail in the polls. The last point I want to make is one that is in the minds of Socialists and all people who wish everything they can wish of good will and strength to this Government. It is a point made for us by speakers from the Party above the gangway this morning. We are told it is a pity that this Administration has not included in the Gracious Speech more specific reference to rural amenities. They remind us, although a little belatedly, that in the Coalition Government—in the bitter end of the Government—they made some contribution when the right hon. and learned Member for North Croydon (Mr. Willink) piloted through the great Water Bill, the first big contribution towards solving the problem of rural amenities. Rut did the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) point out to the House why it is that the need it so desperate and urgent now for good housing for agricultural workers? Why is there this great outcry for electric light, gas and drainage and all the other things that people who live in the rural areas require? Did the right hon. Gentleman ask the House to excuse his Party for the tremendous moral responsibility which they had to those who have lived in rural slums all their lives? This change of front by the right hon. Gentleman's Party when it finds itself in Opposition is, in my opinion, rather bad. They had the power, and the opportunity, and for them to come into this House and tell the Labour Party that it has omitted important legislation on specific subjects, when the real fault lies at the door of the Conservative Party itself, can I think, only be described by an adjective which I would not be allowed to use in this Chamber—so I leave it to the imagination of hon. Members. This is the best Administration that this ancient House has ever seen. It is the first Administration where the preponderance of Members of this House, men and women, are pledged to social reconstruction. It is the first House that has given hope to the depressed, not only in this country but throughout the world. I do not say, as a Member of Commonwealth,  that I would like Labour to succeed. All my organisation says is that Labour must succeed. It is not a question in their next electoral document of saying ""Let us face the future"" but rather that if they fail they may be called upon, at a later stage, to ""face the music."" The fact remains that they have the great responsibility now of putting the people of Great Britain on the path that alone can lead to progress and success. They have got to succeed. I implore Members of the Government and on the back benches of the Labour Party to keep their minds mobile and swift to react to conditions of change. They have seen since they fought the election campaign what great catastrophic changes can occur in the world in which we live. Further changes may occur throughout this Session and certainly will occur during the life of this Parliament and their responsibility is great because they have got to rise in greatness to overcome those changes.
