gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I consider myself fortunate in having caught your eye, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, and having been given this opportunity of making my first contribution to the discussions in this House upon such an important matter for Scotland. I support the Bill. Whilst not altogether satisfied with it, I cannot help feeling that it will confer enormous benefits upon many of the people who are at present without an adequate water supply in Scotland, the very people who would probably benefit if we could organise our economic life in Scotland to provide light industries and a more profitable and healthy system of agriculture. I feel rather alarmed at finding myself, by way of a change, in agreement with the hon. Member for South Edinburgh (Sir W. Darling) Having been in disagreement with him since I first opposed him when he entered political life, I wondered whether I was altogether on safe ground and I was rather cautious. I cannot help feeling that this question of the water of Scotland and the abundance of water with which Scotland is blessed should have been dealt with in a much better and more comprehensive manner. There is a considerable amount to be said for combination and for a unified consideration of the hydro-electrical development and the water supply of Scotland. Nevertheless, I feel that the Bill does go some considerable distance in helping us towards a system that we have spent about 100 years trying to  evolve, a system which will give the ordinary man and woman an adequate and pure supply of water. It is of interest to recall that century of experience. It probably gives the clue to why the hon. Member for South Edinburgh should suddenly become such a keen supporter of national planning as distinct from individual enterprise, because the historyof water enterprises is characterised by some very shameless episodes. I believe that the hon. Member will know the history of the Edinburgh Water Company and the efforts made by the company to exploit the people of Edinburgh. The women had to sit awake all night in the top flats of their tenements in order to get sufficient water to be able to wash the week's clothing. When the matter was inquired into, it was found that the company had conveniently inserted into the pipes large discs with small holes in the centre about the size of a matchstick. That was not a very good recommendation for private enterprise. Private enterprise has not been able to meet the needs of the people for a pure and adequate water supply, because there is not sufficient profit in it. The development of Scotland cannot be carried out without an adequate supply of water for agricultural, industrial and domestic purposes. It is as essential as is a cheap and efficient transport system, which Scotland has not got. It is as essential as a cheap and efficient power system. Scotland is amazingly wealthy in water, and yet we find that one-third of the rural population of Scotland has no supply of domestic water. In that small country the endeavour to meet the needs of the people had grown in a piecemeal fashion. We find that there are some 400 water supply systems with 210 different. authorities or undertakers, and that they manage some 700 undertakings in supplying a population of 5,000,000 people. That is, one undertaking to 7,000 people. The position is hopelessly inefficient. I believe that the Bill will place in the hands of the Secretary of State power to create in Scotland a more comprehensive system, to rationalise that system and to cut out the waste. Hon. Members have complained about the lack of co-operation in the past, but local authorities have had the power to co-operate. It is unfortunate for the people that it has not always been the welfare of the people that has inspired those who have dominated the local authorities, and the people have suf-   fered from a tendency to discourage a healthy economic and social life in this country. We have suffered from that until to-day it has become one of the largest depressed areas in the British Isles, and possibly one of the largest in a much greater area. This Bill makes it possible for some of these undertakings to be combined and to eliminate the small inefficient supplies. It makes it possible to procure a cleaner supply of water. Many of the present supplies are open to pollution. With the financial provisions of the Bill the Secretary of State gets a sum of money from the Treasury considerably larger than that formerly given for this purpose, and this will make it possible to tackle the problem on a large scale. Large-scale undertakings are undoubtedly more efficient. I have my doubts about the Bill, for I wonder whether the powers contained in it are sufficient or whether the Secretary of State will use them to bring about a national development of the water supply in Scotland. It is suggested in the White Paper that there should be in Scotland a Central Advisory Committee to deal with the supply of water. I think that that recommendation is necessary, and I would like to see such a body set up to consider the needs of Scotland. I do not see how the needs of many small districts are to be met and guaranteed unless some form of national or regional system is adopted. We have suffered in the past, and still suffer, from the greed of the landlords, and I would like to see powers given to acquire land at reasonable rates of compensation. I do not know how we stand in this matter, but the powers given to the Secretary of State for obtaining land for the purpose of building an adequate water supply should be equivalent to those given to acquire land for housing purposes. If it is necessary to have healthy housing conditions—as it is—it is equally necessary to have a healthy water supply, and the needs of the community should be placed before the greed of any individual. I hope that we shall go on with this Bill rapidly. As one hon. Member remarked, the test of this Bill is not in the fact that it consolidates existing legislation, nor in the fact that it gives us an up-to-date code of administration; it is in the degree to which it meets the needs of the people of Scotland for water. The Bill falls or stands on that, and I hope that we shall give it the fullest consideration and try  to make it better and, if necessary, give even greater powers to the Secretary of State to bring about this very desirable development in Scotland as speedily as possible.
