gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hesitate to inflict on the House yet another maiden speech. I think there has been such a spate of virginity that even the most hardened of males is satiated. But I believe I am the only Member of this House who is, or was until a month ago, a headmaster of an independent school represented on the Headmasters' Conference. I am not sure that I am not the only such headmaster who has ever sat in this House. I am also aware that this House is full of educational experts. I cannot help feeling that many of them are educational experts in the sense that they have sat on educational committees, or that they are members of governing bodies or are officials of trade unions. I do not claim to be an educational expert in so exalted a sense. I am merely an artisan of education, a person who has handled the tools of his trade, in fact, a wage slave. I therefore want to confront these other people, whom I regard rather as in the position of directors of companies, with the views of the wage slave which I think sometimes are worth hearing. Under this economic system even the wage slave has, I think, some preference for certain types of employer, and I feel I am speaking on behalf of very many headmasters and assistant masters in secondary schools all over the country when I say that the employer they would prefer is the Minister of Education and not the local authority. I cannot help feeling that it is not yet sufficiently understood how deep is the feeling of the staffs of grammar or secondary schools, call them what you will, everywhere on this subject. I, for one, share the views they hold. I have been teach-   ing for 15 years, ten years of that time as a headmaster. During that time I must have interviewed perhaps a thousand parents, together with their young hopefuls, and I have derived from that experience some very definite conclusions. It has been a bitter personal disappointment to me that in that time I must have refused admission to my school of many hundreds of children with brains who should have been encouraged, and who would have benefited there from because their parents could not afford the fees. On the other hand, economic circumstances have made me accept very many children who had not the brains to benefit from the education we tried to give them but whose parents had got the money. It was perhaps that experience more than any other which first led me to membership of the party to which I have the honour to belong, and ultimately to my place in this House. I was faced throughout that time with what seemed to me a tragic waste of ability and brain, because boys of high intelligence and capacity were robbed of what ought to have been their birthright. I think we are at one on all sides in this House in demanding that that waste shall cease and that there shall be equality of opportunity for all. I am sure, at least, that behind me there is no divergence of opinion on that subject. It is when we come to apply that principle that we fall into disagreement. Equality of opportunity is not the same as equality of education. I want to refer to what I believe is not based upon theories or opinions but on facts. The first fact we have to face is that all men, despite what may have been said to the contrary, are not born equal. Every child, even whilst mewling and puking in the nurse's arms, is different, from its very inception, in brains, character, physique and potentiality, from any other child. We have, to make our education fit the child and not make the child fit our education, if we are to achieve anything. There is a widespread illusion, embodied in the Debates on the Education Act passed by Parliament many months ago, that this House can create an educated nation by laying brick upon brick, and exuding teachers from training colleges. I suppose that all of us who have been in contact with the Army have come across intelligence tests. We have to realise that the mere provision of schools will not produce an educated nation. We have to realise—and I do not suggest the figure is exact—that only something like 10 per cent. of the population of this country has the ability to benefit from a university education. I will not quarrel over the figure, and we may call it 15 per cent. or 20 per cent. The point is that it is a small proportion and is not a majority. I cannot help feeling that the future success of the Education Act depends to a much larger extent than is realised upon that 10, 15 or 20 per cent. If we study the curves of intelligence tests of boys, no matter from what locality, we shall find that they follow broadly but only up to a certain limit the earning capacity of their parents. I know there are many exceptions, many honourable exceptions, but broadly speaking there is some truth in that statement. Put in another way, it is the boy who comes from the more cultured but not wealthy home, whose intelligence will probably be among the higher groups. I state that as a fact without fear of contradiction. I have a feeling that that section of the population, a vital section, is not receiving the consideration that it ought to receive. I, for one, was appalled and so were many other people, at the provision which I think came into force during the period of responsibility of the right hon. Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) as Minister of Education and under which graduate teachers are worth only £15 a year above the non-graduate. That was resented everywhere in the secondary and the grammar schools. It was rightly resented. The party to which I have the honour to belong states in its initial charter that it represents workers by brain as well as workers by hand. I cannot help thinking that there is a danger that this may sometimes be forgotten. We have heard much about the phrase ""parity of esteem."" I cannot help thinking that there rests in many people's minds the idea that all places of education must be held in parity of esteem in the sense that their intellectual content is equal. I believe that to be a complete illusion. Every individual soul should indeed be held in parity of esteem but when we apply this phrase to educational institu-   tions I believe we are suggesting something wildly impracticable. I do not think anyone honestly believes that the University of Oxford and a village school can ever be held in parity of esteem in intellectual content. They are worthy of it, in the sense that you give to each of them its maximum attention, but that is not always what is meant by that phrase. The Education Act recognises to a certain extent the desirability of schools of different types, but today we are concerned with the form of government of schools of different types. There are those who think that all educational institutions in any given locality should come under the local education authority. May I take as an example Cambridge? There is in Cambridge a school called ""The Perse School,"" which is desirous of remaining on the direct grant list. I do not know whether any decision has been taken on that subject, but I know that some hon. Members would oppose its being on the direct grant list largely on the theory that all educational institutions in Cambridge should be under the same authority. Will they carry their own theory to its logical conclusion? Will they also place Cambridge University under the local education authority? I do not think they would. If they would not, why not? Let us examine this position. First, they would say, ""The University of Cambridge has an intellectual content which is inappropriate to local control."" Secondly, they would say, ""Cambridge University is essentially not local."" Let us examine that. Those two conditions are applicable also to other educational institutions which wish to remain on the direct grant list. Let us bear these two aspects in mind: non-local in character, or inappropriate in intellectual content for control by local authorities. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for North Dorset (Lieut.-Colonel Byers) referred in his speech to Shaftesbury Grammar School. That is not in my constituency, but it happens that I live six miles from it, and know it fairly well. It contains, I believe, about 150 boarders, boys drawn from all over the country, from outside the country and from the Empire. What logical basis is there for placing a school such as that under the local authority? I know I have taken up too much time already and I do not wish to give further  examples, but I earnestly ask the Minister to consider this question afresh. I am a little nervous, and I think any normal person must be, of the temptation to treat the chain of schools which exists throughout Great Britain like a chain of Marks and Spencer's stores. I believe, it is true that in France 20 years ago it was possible for the French Minister of Education to ask his secretary what the schools in France were doing that day and he could be told in reply that at say 10.25 every school in France was studying the geographical configuration of North Western Europe. God forbid that that situation should ever arise in England. I have already heard of a local director of education who can say—and who didsay—""I am giving all my schools a half holiday on such and such a date."" The point I wish to make is that, if we are to make progress, the centre of gravity of the school must be in the school itself and not in any outside body. I am nervous, and I think any good, thoughtful Socialist must be nervous, of the degree of uniformity which can be attained under unimaginative administration. I am certain that Socialism is practicable without proceeding to the extreme limits which I have tried to indicate, and if there is one sphere in which uniformity is undesirable and impracticable, I believe it is education. That is why I have tried in this my first speech to deal with that subject. I feel with all sincerity that in the question of these direct grant schools we are in danger of killing some thing that is really worth while. I do not like killing. I appeal to the Minister to try at least in some cases to reconsider these matters.
