gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope the House will extend its kindly tolerance to yet another maiden speech. I shall keep the House only a very short time. I want to raise the difficulty that the widows of Service men with families find when they try to obtain civilian housing, and I relate this problem to Clause 5 of the Bill, which states: Where the Minister is of opinion … that there is urgent need for more housing accommodation … and that unless the Minister exercises his powers under this section that housing accommodation could not be provided … the Minister may direct that, in the case of any approved dwelling … the amount of the annual exchequer subsidy otherwise payable under this Act, if less than the amount hereinafter specified, shall be increased to such sum as may be specified in the direction. … These cases in which I am interested and wish to put before the House cannot be dealt with in groups, as can agricultural workers' cottages or the houses of workers in industry. They are scattered up and down the country. It might be thought that for that very reason they could be easily absorbed by the local authorities, but unfortunately the problem of housing is inevitably a local one and many of the local authorities as a rough guide have priority lists based on points from which they make their allocations and outside cases upset their lists. Local residents, if they hear of an outside family being taken on the list, are naturally very loud in their complaints and feel that they have been superseded. I think that for the same reason it is easy to distinguish between the Service widow and civilian widow who, perhaps, also loses her house on her husband's death. The latter, after all, will be among friends and neighbours. Moreover, she may have lived in the locality some time. She may even be a native. She will have very little difficulty, on making application, in being immediately put on the local housing list. The widow of a Service man, however, not only loses her husband and her home but also her friends and neighbours when she moves out of married quarters, and she becomes an outcast in her own country. I am encouraged to think that the Minister may be able to help in these cases, or, at any rate, look upon them sympathetically, in view of the Circular he sent to housing authorities on 8th March this year. I want to quote a paragraph of it: Sailors, soldiers and airmen, returning to civil life after a period of years in the Forces, as often as not possess no fixed abode anywhere at all. To insist, in such circumstances, on a residential qualification is to make it quite impossible for many of them to get their names put on the housing list, however great may be their need. That these men should be penalised in this way solely by reason of the fact that they have been serving their country, is a most grievous injustice, which should not he allowed to continue. If it is difficult enough for a man with a wife and family, a potential wage earner, or one with already a good job to go to, to find a house, how much more difficult it must be for a woman left with very small financial means, and with children to support and a home to find. The benevolent societies which work for the three Forces stand behind these widows and help them as much as they can, but they cannot provide houses. I should like to suggest that possibly the Minister may see his way in these cases, which, after all, are not very many, to offer to increase the subsidy to a local authority willing to take on one of these families. It cannot be, I think, a very large financial burden. It may be said from the local authority's point of view to be an enticement financially so small as not to be worth while, but I think a gesture of this sort would establish a principle; it would make quite clear the duty that, I am sure, everybody feels we have to the dependants of men in the fighting Services who die during their period of service. It would, I am perfectly certain, give tremendous satisfaction to the men who are serving to know that this had been made possible. It would bring the local authorities into partnership with the Government in meeting this need, and, above all, it would allay the fear which must be constantly in the minds of our young wives, especially those who marry into the Royal Air Force, in which death can come so suddenly, the fear which must take the form of the question, ""What shall I do with the children if anything happens to my Bill?""
