gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I at the outset of my maiden speech remind right hon. and hon. Members that in the whole history of the Liverpool, Scotland, division, which goes back 86 years, apart from myself there have been only three Members of Parliament. There was, first, Mr. T. P. O'Connor, affectionately known as ""T.P."", who served the constituency for 44 years. Then there was Mr. D. G. Logan, who served the constituency for 34 years. These two predecessors of mine served the House for 78 years   between them. This, judged by any standards, was a massive vote of confidence. My immediate predecessor, Mr. Walter Alldritt, laid claim to the Chiltern Hundreds to take an important trade union post in the North West. He continues to serve ordinary men and women as he has done for most of his life. My constituency lies on the banks of the Mersey, which takes in a large part of the Liverpool dockland. Earlier this week the House debated the financial policy of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board. Hon. Members can imagine the state of uncertainty that exists in my constituency. The constituency has got dotted all over it—I will come to what this has to do with unemployment—pieces of land which have lain derelict for many years. One large piece of land situated in the middle of my constituency has lain derelict for more than 30 years. It is known as ""The Brickfield"". The council, when it is pressed about these matters, says that it is shortage of funds. With all the expertise available to the Government, they should be able to make moneys available to local authorities, possibly at low interest rates, so that they can advance public works and help to reduce unemployment. On Merseyside there are now 41,222 unemployed, or 5·1 per cent. of the working population. In the City of Liverpool alone there are 20,000 unemployed, or 5·6 per cent., well above the national average. Such figures cannot be tolerated by any society that calls itself Christian or civilised. Something must be done. My constituents are not asking; they are demanding that the Government do something in the short term to reduce these drastic unemployment figures. One of the sad things in a very sad tale is the fact that juvenile unemployment on Merseyside, unemployment among boys and girls between the ages of 15 and 17 who are on the very threshold of an adult career, is now well over 3,000. This is to be deplored. The situation is serious. Something must be done. This position cannot be allowed to continue. The time for the Government is now, the time to act is now—and to act vigorously.
