gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On 30th October last, I became the Member for Gorbals. I succeeded the late Mrs. Alice Cullen, a woman who was held in the highest  respect in this House. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] In my constituency she became a legend in her lifetime. Two or three years ago the Sunday Express christened her the champion of the slum dweller, and she richly earned that title, because for 50 years, since 1916 when she first went to the Gorbals, she worked unceasingly for an area which I am sorry to say has the unfortunate record of having the worst housing in Western Europe. As one who was born and brought up in the Gorbals until three years ago, and who is proud to represent the constituency, I come to the House concerned with, and hoping to solve, the problems with which my predecessor came to the House more than 21 years ago. For the benefit of hon. Members from south of the Border, perhaps I should make it clear that I am still a member of the local authority in Glasgow. What has been done in the last 18 months in Glasgow? I know that one should not be political or attempt to take party advantage when making a maiden speech, but I must in all sincerity say that it was most unfortunate for the people of Glasgow that 18 months ago there was a change of administration in the city. For 30 years prior to that Glasgow had enjoyed a Labour administration. In spite of receiving a subsidy of 2s. 6d., which is to be raised to 3s. 4d. in the coming year, the Tory-controlled local authority in Glasgow in its budget reduced its housing estimates by more than £700,000. The first-class direct labour building department that we had created in the 'thirties was reduced by more than 600 building trade operatives, and that in a city which has the worst housing record in Europe. As I said in the Scottish Grand Committee only two or three days ago, it is criminal to pay off building trade workers in such a situation. Unfortunately, there have been two penal rent increases in Glasgow during the last 15 months, and in the last three months 416 families have been ejected from their corporation homes. Where did those families go? Time and again I have asked whether anyone cares, but unfortunately I am still waiting for an answer. Part of the answer lies in the statement that more than 2,000 children   are in the care of the Glasgow local authority, and I am sorry to say that many of these children come from homes which have broken up as a result of rent increases, and the ejection of families because of their inability to pay the rent. I am the first to admit that a great deal of the fault lies at their own doors. I hope that the Minister will have some regard for some ""first aid"" or ""ambulance"" work to prevent a situation in which 2,000 children are in the care of a local authority. I am looking at this purely financially. We are told that it costs over £10 a week to keep a child in a home. I am always convinced however that housing is not a political but n social problem which concerns us all because of the human misery that it can bring. What type of citizens will those 2,000 children be? This is what worries me. I accept that rents are lower in Scotland than in England, but the real problem is that we have enjoyed a large measure of unemployment for far too long. This Government have corrected the situation, but in the past 30 years we were considered an industrial annex of the south. We enjoyed a boom when there was one in England, but when there was a recession here we suffered severely. The Scot is a proud person. He is not looking for subsidies or low rents. He is a natural artisan who has inherited a tradition of being a first-class worker, but he wants the chance to work. In spite of this Government having done more on the industrial scene in the last five years than had been done in the previous 25 years, there are still too many people unemployed. I have said this before, but I hope to be as much a critic of this Government as any hon. Member opposite. If there is anything that the Gorbals respects it is a fighter and I serve notice on my right hon. Friend that I cannot always be expected to go into the Lobby when social issues of this kind still affect people in the Gorbals. Many thousands are out of work in Glasgow. Unfortunately, in spite of the Board of Trade figures that we are narrowing the gap between the average wages in England and those in Scotland, our local authority manual reveals that thousands of Glasgow workers still take home less than £12 a week. The rebate schemes are inadequate for the lower-  paid worker. I know this from having defended many people before rent tribunals and the poor law court. Many people in Glasgow are paying over 20 per cent. of their income in rent, which is a fair percentage of anyone's income. Recently the Tories in Glasgow brought in a new scheme, creating eight new grades of housing. We have built 150,000 municipal houses in Glasgow. We are proud of that, but it is still not enough. Two-thirds of the houses in my constituency have been built only in the last five years of Labour Government. But we have some very bad municipal housing. Under this policy of the Tories, the unemployed, the lower-paid worker and the unsociable person will all be graded in category 8 because of their inability to pay. As I said to the housing convenor at our last meeting of the corporation, we are creating housing ghettoes. Any family is stultified if families are grouped together as one type. One does not encourage any of the quality of life which we should be encouraging in every family. Everyone should have equal opportunity in Glasgow, irrespective of his income. I am perhaps an old-fashioned Socialist. I believe that housing should be a social service. I have come to accept that, unfortunately, Glasgow Corporation is supplying municipal houses not to those in need but to those with the ability to pay. The hon. Member for North Angus and Mearns (Mr. Buchanan-Smith) referred to the many stores closing in Glasgow. But, as in other spheres, there are inefficient stores in Glasgow. The city has been ""over-stored"" for many years. One or two firms have a monopoly of the stores in Glasgow, and many of them are closing because of inefficiency and because Glasgow is losing so much of its population to the new towns and overspill areas. The last election bore out my firm impression that the people of Scotland realise that this is the most reforming Government this century, that they have done more for the people of Glasgow than any other Government that we can remember. If one could describe this Government over Their five years of office, it would be as a Government of social justice. I am convinced that the mandate of this Government will be   renewed from time to time. I am appalled that hon. Members opposite do not think that an increase of 7s. 6d. to 10s. is enough. It is far too much for many of these people. I completely support the Bill, and I thank the House for listening to me.
