gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a new Member of the House, I crave its indulgence for my lack of experience. There is a matter of growing seriousness which is, unfortunately, not mentioned in the Gracious Speech, and about which many hon. Members will have no knowledge at all. I have recently been making a number of night journeys by lorry between London and the North, to investigate what is happening to the vehicles which British Road Services have been forced to sell. Many of these vehicles have become killer lorries, as I intend to show. The maximum number of hours permitted by law for driving a heavy lorry is 11 per day or night. In my view that is quite sufficient because of the great strain involved. Thousands of these sold lorries, however, are working for 12, 14, 16 or 18 hours out of the 24, with tragic results. Under British Road Services the system is for a driver to leave, say, Manchester at seven o'clock at night, take his loaded lorry to London, and arrive at the British Road Services depot in north London at seven o'clock in the morning. Thereafter, he goes to his ""digs,"" gets some sleep, and has the opportunity for some leisure before restarting work at seven o'clock the same night. In the meanwhile, another driver—a shunt driver with experience of the streets of London—will have picked up the loaded lorry from the depot and delivered the load—let us say to a factory on the south side of the Thames. He will have unloaded the lorry, travelled to another factory or warehouse or the docks, picked up a fresh load and will have taken it back to the depot in north London, whereupon at seven o'clock at night the night driver, the trunk driver, takes it back to Manchester. Today, under private enterprise, all these processes are being done by one driver. As one can imagine, in view of the fantastic hours which are being   worked, it is impossible for the driver to maintain the necessary alertness at the wheel. I have seen men nodding in the cabs, I have seen lorries veering across the roads. In a recent journey I saw three serious crashes. One lorry had run right across the road and through the hedge on its offside. That indicates how far the driver was off his course. A policeman encounters a lorry parked on the roadside with its headlights blazing. He goes to see what is the trouble and he finds nobody moving. He looks inside the cab and finds the driver slumped across the steering wheel flat out. The man had been too tired even to switch off the headlights. There is a shop some miles north of London which has been crashed into by vehicles 26 times. Admittedly at that point the road is extremely narrow and that might provide some excuse, but it is, in the main, tired drivers who are responsible for crashing into it. I should like to give some information which requires serious attention. At a recent inquest on a driver killed in a lorry crash it was shown that of the last 110 hours of his life he had spent 92 in the cab of his lorry. I should like to invite the Minister of Transport to accompany me on a night trip of that kind. I may say that the night life on the roads and in the all-night cafés is very interesting, in more senses than one, but there are features which would shock the right hon. Gentleman. He would see parked along A.5, A.6, and the other main roads, hundreds of lorries, with their drivers in the cabs snatching a few hours sleep. If these men were working normal hours that would not be happening. These drivers are described as the ""night-and-day wallahs."" The really guilty men are the owners of the private firms who encourage the men in these practices. Often the lorries are not properly maintained. Under British Road Services, which directly honoured the regulations governing hours of work, the lorries received regular maintenance and overhaul which are vital to safety. That work is not being continued. Again, some lorries are being grossly overloaded. If there are many tons too much on the back of a lorry it is impossible for the driver to pull up in time  in an emergency. As a result, the accident rate is soaring. I repeat that I have no personal interest in the matter, but I would say that British Road Services did a magnificent job. In the first two years of its operations it reduced by 25 per cent. the number of accidents causing injury in which its lorries were involved. It reduced by 40 per cent. the number of accidents causing death in which its lorries were involved. Today, however, the accident rate is growing. I want the House to know how bitterly my lorry driver friends feel about this as they see all the pre-war evils of the road returning. Their view, and it is one which I share, is that the only effective solution to this problem is that the Government should stop the sale of any further British Road Services' lorries, and that those already sold should be returned to public ownership. I wish to refer to one other subject—the intolerable housing conditions in which millions of our people have to live. In the City of Manchester an average of two houses collapse every day because the walls are too old and too tired to bear the strain of supporting the roofs any longer. In the City of Salford, which adjoins Manchester, and the eastern part of which I have the honour to represent, the housing conditions are worse. Recently a house collapsed on a 79year-old bedridden widow. Miraculously she was brought out unhurt. It so happens that a moment before the roof collapsed the rent collector was at the door, and he jumped clear in time. Incredible as it may seem, five minutes later, after the dust had settled, he nipped back and calmly collected the 10s. 1d. rent from a member of the family. I know that because I was there half an hour later, and I saw the 10s. I d. marked in the rent book. Salford is a city largely inhabited by men who have dirty jobs—rubber workers, engineering workers, dockers and textile workers—yet in that city three out of every five houses have no baths, most of them have no hot water supply and the rooms are so damp, certainly in the southern wards, that the children are seldom free from sickness. I have seen water pouring through the roofs and oozing from the walls, which in many instances are studded with rat holes. One can see marks on the furniture where the rats have gnawed. Is it right that mothers should have the job of trying to bring up children in conditions like that? In the old days we heard about tenants doing a ""moonlight flit."" In Salford today it is often the landlord who is doing a ""moonlight flit."" There are whole streets with no landlords. They have left the houses in a shocking condition. The only way to deal with the problem is to arrange that all the houses should be owned by the local authority. My experience of life, which has been very varied, has taught me that those who do the hardest, dirtiest, most dangerous and most important jobs usually receive the worst pay, the worst treatment and the worst conditions. I plead that a greater share of the nation's wealth should be devoted to industrial cities, such as Salford, where these workers have to live.
