gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
At first sight, the Overseas Aid Bill may not seem to have any very great bearing on the affairs of the City of Sheffield, one part of which I have the honour to represent. In a general sense, however, all citizens of this country, all taxpayers, make a contribution to overseas aid. Many of them do so through personal generosity to organisations like Oxfam, Christian Aid and the United Nations Association, while others contribute even more directly. Sheffield makes a direct contribution to technical assistance through the work of its university which, particularly in the last two decades, has trained many hundreds of young men and women from overseas in mining, engineering, metallurgy, medicine, the law and many other professional skills which are in very short supply in overseas lands. A year or two ago I took the trouble to count up the number of different nationalities of students in Sheffield, and I found that no less than 40 different nations and territories were represented among them. There may be more today. Not only in the training of young men and women from abroad, but also through sending distinguished academic teachers to serve overseas has the university made a contribution. Indeed, I often think that this country is able to make a better contribution by sending both young and experienced men and women out to the countries of Asia and Africa than even by inviting their nationals to come to be trained in institutions here, although both moves are extremely valuable. I have had the pleasure of serving for a short time in West Africa, in Fourah Bay College, in Sierra Leone. I was pleased to see there in physical terms the scientific laboratories and other buildings which had been put up with Commonwealth development funds. I saw the immense value of this work to the people of that country. I was particularly impressed by the desperate need in West Africa—and this applies throughout the Continent—for trained manpower doctors, engineers, scientists, teachers, agriculturists and men and women of every possible professional skill. I am sorry to say that there was no dearth of politicians. There is not only the need for professional people, but a shortage at all levels, particularly of craftsmen and artisans—such as plumbers, electricians and carpenters. I am glad to say that industry in Sheffield has played a part in the training of people at this level. Not only have the engineering and steel works of Sheffield provided important capital equipment and plant for the Indian sub-continent and elsewhere, but have given opportunities for young men to go into the works at the craft level and learn the skills of operating these great machines. The overseas aid provided for in the Bill is not a form of international charity. As was said in the White Paper: We give aid because, in the widest sense, we believe that it is in our interests to do so as a member of the world community. I stress the phrase: … as a member of the world community. It is certainly to our long-term economic advantage to stimulate the growth  of economies of other countries and to contribute towards a general expansion of world trade. It is also extremely important for our reputation, our influence and standing in the world that we should be seen to be making an adequate contribution to the great international effort towards raising the standard of living of poorer countries. I need not remind the House that other countries are making a very powerful contribution in this sphere and that it is important that we should stand shoulder to shoulder with them so that our contribution is on a par with theirs, bearing in mind our economic resources. I scarcely need mention the contribution of France and the United States and the fact that the contribution of the Scandinavian countries is, per capita, in some cases greater than our own. Countries like Japan are now entering this sphere and are likely, shortly, to be making financial contributions which can rival the contributions envisaged in the Bill. There is, of course, a price to be paid. There is a real transfer of resources—manpower, capital and equipment—when we provide for money to be spent on overseas aid. But this must be kept in perspective. To quote the White Paper: The sacrifice of resources which the aid programme may involve is not great in relation to our wealth. By the standards of developing countries we are rich, with an average income about 10 times the average of theirs. This cannot be too often emphasised. Twenty years ago we contributed £48 million, which then represented half of 1per cent. of our national wealth—or about 1¼d. in the £. Our contribution now is about £200 million, which is two-thirds of 1 per cent. of our national income and represents about ½d. in the £, so we are doing ¼d. in the £ better. The Government, of course, are entitled to stress the problems which arise in balance of payments through provision of this aid, but I am somewhat disturbed that the National Plan provides for a very tiny increase in the next four years in our contributions. So far as I can see, it will provide a slightly smaller proportion of national wealth by 1970 than we are giving now. Fortunately, the plan is subject to review year by year. I hope that this aspect will receive very close and detailed attention, particularly as the 1960s have been designated by the United   Nations as the Development Decade. That is a decade in which the nations of the world have pledged themselves to pay particular attention to the needs of the poorer countries and the need to raise their standard of living. Finally, I quote a phrase used by the Prime Minister on 17th March, 1963. I hope that I have the date right, for am sure that he will not forgive me if I have it wrong. My right hon. Friend referred to providing the munitions of life, not the munitions of death to people in lands where life hangs all too often by a very slender thread. The Bill enables us to send out the munitions of life. I hope that, for that reason, it will have the ungrudging support of the whole House.
