gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you very much, Dr. King, for your kind reference to the fact which slightly delayed my address to the Committee for the first time. It gave me the opportunity to retire for a little mental stimulus. In rising to address the Committee, I am only too conscious of the need which I have for that indulgence which is always shown to new Members. I shall speak briefly, and I wish to raise the matter of the £250 million to £260 million which the Chancellor is finding it necessary to raise in this current Budget in the furtherance of his farm support policies. Before I go any further, however, I must declare a slight personal, though almost insignificant interest, in a small part of those subsidies. I hasten to add that the Committee must not in though almost insgnificant, interest in in those ""golden losses"" which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor has so rightly and so adequately dealt with. It is my honour to represent a Lancashire constituency which, in part, is interested in farming, but which in great part is interested in the textile trade and in other manufactures. It therefore falls to me to see both sides of the question of farm support. I am only too conscious of the farming side, but I am also extremely conscious of the taxpayers' side of the matter. We in Lancashire rather pride ourselves in asking whether we get value for money. At the present time I think it is pertinent to ask whether the taxpayer, for what is the equivalent of about 1s. 3d. in the £ at the standard rate, under our present price support policies is really getting full value for his money. The price support policies have two main objectives. The first is to enable the industry to equip itself and make itself more efficient. In that respect I think it can be said that price support has been essentially successful. We have now something like 168 per cent. of productivity and production above prewar. This represents between £400 million and £500 million worth of extra food produced by the farming industry in this country. In the speech made by my right hon. Friend in introducing the Budget, he made it only too clear that the question of the balance of payments is still with us. I ask the Committee to  contemplate what bill would have to be paid if we had to go into the markets of the world and buy an equal amount of food. There is a second point which is equally important, the question of maintaining a stable cost of living. In that respect I believe that our price support policies have played a vital part. I will give the Committee a few selected prices of ordinary commodities as they operate in this country and on the Continent. I must apologise for the fact that the statistics I have been able to obtain, issued by the International Labour Office, are possibly not as fresh as I hope the actual commodities are. In fact, I rather run the risk of being accused of ordering tonight's dinner off last year's menu. The cost of 1 1b. of bread in France is 7½d., in Germany 10¼d., in the United States 1s. 6½d., in this country 6½d. The cost of 1 lb. of beef in France is 8s. l½d., in the United States 8s. l½d., in Italy 7s. 2d., and in this country 5s. 3½d. The price of mutton is very much the same and the price of butter is in much the same relation. So a very real saving has been achieved, primarily through our price support policies. As the Committee will be aware, this year's review has not been accepted by the National Farmers' Union and has been open to very wide criticism by the industry as a whole. I do not think that it is because we have docked the odd £9 million off the Bill. It is something deeper, more genuine, that is worrying the industry. What concerns us is that while the industry as a whole, with the benefit of varying levels of tariff protection, is able to increase production, absorbing rising costs and reducing prices, it has to absorb those rising costs and to reduce its prices on the basis of a limited home market and the denial to it of an export trade in the interests of European trade agreements. This, on the face of it, may appear to have some validity. With all due respect to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, the current White Paper tends to give colour to this argument. In paragraph 14 we are certainly told either to reduce production or to hold it at its present levels on almost all the review commodities. I am certain that while there may be room   for increases in efficiency and for lowering costs, agriculture cannot hope to share in the increase in the living standards that we all look forward to unless production can be increased and outlets found for that increased production. If subsidies are standing in the way of these outlets, then subsidies must go wherever this is possible. What is disappointing about the White Paper is that this dilemma has not been faced. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing his Budget yesterday, said: The main source of increased production has been a most welcome rise in output per head. In the long run—we cannot too often remember this—this is the only way in which, as a nation, we can earn an increase in our standard of living.""—{OFFICIAL REPORT, 4th April, 1960; Vol. 621, c. 38.] I ask the Committee to consider how the small farmer, employing perhaps one or, at most, two men, can possibly increase his productivity unless he also increases his production. I have no doubt that if the farming community is to share in the rising standard of living that we all hope for and all anticipate, then we have not only to increase our productivity but also our production and also to find the outlets for that extra production. It is always dangerous to generalise about agricultural matters. It is something that none of us should ever do, because each item on the list is totally different and requires to be dealt with differently. I would draw the attention of the Committee to milk. Milk, with a turnover of £343 million per annum, is only subsidised to the extent of some £8 million, which is infinitesimal. I do not think that even the former Member opposite who once used the phrase ""feather-bedding""could say that the dairy industry was being"" feather-bedded."" I am particularly disappointed with the reference in the Agricultural White Paper to milk. There we are told that we have to gear our production to the liquid market. There is no mention of the manufacture of cheese or of butter or of dried milk. That, apparently, is to be entirely denied to us. This is an industry which has placed itself in a high state of efficiency, and now we are told that we have to cut down on production. It may be that with European trade agreements this slight and infinitesimal subsidy which we are now receiving is preventing us from going into the European market, from manufacturing cheese or dried milk to sell in Europe. If that is so, let us abolish the subsidy, let us get the thing on a rational basis and try to look overseas and see what new markets we can make for. In the end, that is the only way in which the agricultural industry will have any future. The position of beef is exactly the same —a large turnover with an infinitesimal subsidy of about £3,500,000. Why cannot we sell our beef in Paris, in Rome or in Bonn? We are going to enter the stage when we talk of reducing tariffs and opening world markets. I hope that when that time comes the President of the Board of Trade will not forget that British agriculture wants extra markets and extra outlets, and that in quality it can hold its own with any products in the world. I also mention New Zealand lamb. The sheep producers in this country have only 40 per cent. of the lamb and mutton market, and the remaining 60 per cent. is taken by New Zealand. All of us admit the importance of Commonwealth trade, and none of us would wish in any way to do anything prejudicial to it, but it appears to me that a home industry, such as sheep farming, which has tremendous possibilities for expansion, should have some slight increase in its possibilities in the home market. I cannot but think that if some increase were given it might well be possible to reduce the subsidy which is at present paid on lamb. The essence of a maiden speech is that it should be short, and I am conscious that I have already spoken for far longer than I should have done, but I wish to impress upon the Committee that there is a genuine feeling of unease and apprehension in agriculture, and it springs from the fact that those concerned cannot see where they are heading. The White Paper has not helped to clear the vision. For my part, I am quite clear that if ever the subsidy bill is to be reduced— and I think there are few people here who would not like to see it reduced— and if ever agriculture is to share in the increased living standards which we all   hope for, not only must its productivity increase but also its production. I am only too conscious that I am standing here, however temporarily, on the periphery of what I may be excused for calling a ""blue zone"". Nevertheless, I feel very strongly that these subsidies are not, in general, in the best interests of the agricultural industry, and that, although in selected parts of it they may be essential and may continue to be so, there is a large part of the industry which, if given a chance to compete in external markets, could do so on its own merits. We have the best land, the best farmers and the best quality food. In a world of shrinking distances and falling tariff barriers, a world of expansion and rising living standards, surely there must be room for all that we can produce. I hope that there will be no more talk of restriction, but that everything possible will be done to encourage the industry to go out and find new markets.
