gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. I understand that the tradition in the House is that a maiden speech should be uncontroversial and, therefore, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to be able to present, as the first major piece of legislation for which my Ministry will be responsible, what I think can be regarded as an uncontroversial Bill. I do this with some trepidation, because although I have had some experience of speaking elsewhere this is a rather curious—if that is not an offensive word—place in which to speak. There are a number of procedural rules which appear to have to be learned and I hope that there will be a deal of tolerance given to me if I overstep some of them. I say sincerely that I shall attempt to be uncontroversial. This is a technical issue which we are considering and I may, therefore, be called upon to do a little more quoting than I understand is normally allowed. When I say that this is non-controversial, I would like, first, to pay tribute to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bexley (Mr. Heath), who last year, on 28th July, announced to the House, in a Written Answer, the views that were held by the Board of Trade on this subject. He stated: The Government now propose to seek powers to extend the scope and scale of the Corporation's work so that, in addition to the activities which it has undertaken in the past, it will be able to contribute more effectively to industrial innovation and development, particularly development in which industry takes a share of the risk. That is the essential ingredient of this proposal as well as of the proposal which was intended to come from the last Government when they were considering this issue. The right hon. Gentleman went on: For this purpose legislation will be introduced next Session to raise to £25 million in the first instance the Corporation's present limit of borrowing power from the Board of Trade. The legislation will also provide for  a modification and extension of the financial and other conditions under which the Corporation operates so that, in partnership with industry, it will have greater freedom to promote the development and the commercial application of new techniques.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 28th July, 1964; Vol. 699, c. 261.] That was the need for expansion of development and co-operation with industry. We have been able, in the Bill, to build on that view expressed by the right hon. Member for Bexley. I am sure that, as we go through this, he will recognise many of the proposals which he himself put forward. We intend to make a slightly wider use of the powers of the National Research Development Corporation. Before dealing with the Bill, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the origin of legislation to date, for it is essential to understand the background in which we make these proposals. When, under the present Prime Minister, legislation was proposed and introduced in 1948, and given effect to in 1949, this was the first legislative recognition of the need to deal with the problem of the development gap. It was accepted then, and subsequent history has only served to confirm, that while British fundamental and applied research was as good as anywhere else in the world—and there is no argument about that—sometimes there were, no doubt for sound reasons, some serious delays and failures in the development and adoption by industry of the results of research. At that time the Government research stations, civilian and defence, the universities and other research institutions were making many discoveries and inventions of fundamental importance. There had been, during the previous few years, a number of sound and substantial inventions coming forward, produced in British laboratories, but either because they had simply been published or because patent exploitation had not been followed they had eventually been developed abroad and the advantages and results had accrued to other countries. There was, therefore, a clear requirement for an organisation equipped to undertake the task of protecting these inventions by patents and of subsequently exploiting them. The first purpose for which the Corporation was set up was, therefore, to enable it to   take over and patent such inventions and then exploit them. But in too many cases active patent exploitation was not enough and it was subsequently discovered that in some instances—probably because industry had too many other things to do with its resources—industry was not always sufficiently prepared to take the risk of speculative development. Industry was often not willing to take an interest in an invention unless sufficient development had been done to demonstrate its technical soundness and to enable the firm to form a closer estimate of its commercial value. The second purpose of the Corporation was to invest a proportion of its original £5 million capital in the development of inventions to the stage at which they could be successfully licensed to industry. The Corporation was set up in 1949 with its initial capital of £5 million, which could be advanced during its first five years. As I will demonstrate later, that was on a basis of intending that it should make its own way with that £5 million. In 1954, it was found necessary to extend the period of the advances to 10 years; and in 1958 the amount of the capital was increased to £10 million and the period increased to 20 years. By the time of the 1954 Act, it had been realised that research, either to assist in the development or exploitation of an invention or, in some cases, because it might be expected to lead to an invention, was a necessary part of the Corporation's rôle. But last year it became clear that further action was required, and I have already said that the right hon. Member for Bexley himself expressed this view publicly. The history and purpose of the N.R.D.C. is something which we should also consider before we come to the question of the legislation and what we are intending to do. There are, broadly, three heads under which the Corporation operates. The idea is, first, the patenting and licensing to industry of inventions which are already capable of practical application; secondly, assisting the development of inventions; and, thirdly, assisting research likely to lead to new or developed inventions. Exploitation has continued with good success. It stayed at about a constant  level for an initial period of growth, which had to be expected, but it now brings back in royalties about twice what is spent on this part of the Corporation's activities, that is, patenting and licensing are bringing in about twice as much as is invested. For some time past, the second part, the development side, of the work of the Corporation has been assuming greater importance and it is on this side that we hope to get a major expansion in the future. The third function, research, has not up to now resulted in as much return as exploitation, or as much expenditure as development, but it has, nevertheless, covered a number of important projects. It is now clear that the time before one can expect a return on research and development expenditure is longer than was originally envisaged. This was becoming increasingly obvious. It was first assumed that everything would be done successfully and bring in a return, but that proved not to be so. We estimate that the average period is about eight years. If this is so, the Corporation has had to carry its investments, against which interest was chargeable, for a substantial period of time. It will be accepted that this part of the Corporation's work is essentially speculative, particularly in the sense that the Corporation is expected to take risks which industry is not prepared to face, understandably so. This is inherent in the nature of the Corporation's activities and it is, therefore, inevitable that losses will from time to time be incurred on the projects it supports. This activity has had to be financed not by equity capital, as it would have been in ordinary private business, but by loan money from the Government. From the first, it was written in the Act that the Corporation was expected, taking one year with another, to balance its revenue account. This provision, which we intend to maintain—and I had better make that clear—has always been regarded as of very great importance by the Corporation itself. I had the pleasure of talking to the managing director before introducing the Bill, and I was told that the Corporation regarded it as essential that even in the first examination we should retain that provision, because the Corporation felt that it gave it a bargaining position when talking to industry. It   allowed the Corporation to exercise its own independent judgment on any case which came before it. However, for the reasons I have just set out, the Corporation has not so far been able to achieve this objective, and, very broadly speaking, its income from all sources has not amounted to more than hale its outgoings on current account, while it has accumulated a considerable liability for interest on the Government advances. Nevertheless, as the House knows, the Corporation has a very reasonable record of success. It has, during its lifetime, received about £2 million in royalty revenue, which represents only a fraction of its value to industry itself. The value to industry and our economic affairs has sometimes been immeasurably greater. Out of the £6 million which has been invested in development, about £1·4 million has already been recovered. Much of the remainder represents development projects still in the pipeline and which we can expect to produce revenue for the Corporation. This investment has been broadly based. The subjects which have been under review by the N.R.D.C. in medical supplies have been of great value to the medical profession—and I do not mean only the latest of the investments. There have also been electronics and the computer industry, a development which certainly helped the computer industry in its early days. The industry would have been much slower in making its first progress without this work. The Corporation did a great deal of work in printed circuits, which are themselves an essential part of electronic assemblies. A different kind of work, but nevertheless an effective development, was the potato harvester and another was research into automatic cardroom processing in the cotton industry, of great value in the assistance of cotton developments. The two best known at the moment are the Dracone flexible liquid-carrying barge and the Hovercraft, which are now at about the stage, after an extended period of development and investment, where they are likely to bring returns. During the time that the Corporation has been in existence it has also developed a considerable expertise in the handling of patents and development projects. I commend to the House and to anyone interested in the Corporation its six-monthly bulletin which, if nothing else, shows the very wide range of activities with which the Corporation has become associated. The developments in the electrical engineering and electronics side and in scientific instruments show the great value of the organisation to British industry in general. Now for the future and the proposals for reshaping the Corporation. Our wish is that it should play an even more important and constructive rôle. The Government are convinced that, much as has already been done, at the moment the Corporation is still on the edge of the possibilities of development. As the House knows, the main purpose of the creation of the Ministry of Technology is to speed up the industrial application of our scientific ""know-how"" which very properly comes within the range of activities in which we are involved. In the Ministry we have already started a series of studies in depth of various sectors of industry and we shall press ahead with this programme and expand it. The net result of this is likely to be a series of proposals for applied research and development to meet particular needs of industry. In addition, we are making a fresh examination of the possibilities of developing for industrial purposes the results of research work undertaken in Government research establishments and atomic energy establishments. I hope that this will lead to the wider use by industry of new ideas and technological processes. The House will recall, in this connection, that in the Science and Technology Bill we are seeking to enable the Atomic Energy Authority to make use of its great resources and skills over a wider field. It has very great resources and it is a pity if they are not more widely used to the benefit of British industry. The N.R.D.C. can provide a most valuable service in this examination with its wide expertise in the exploitation of inventions. I am sure, therefore, that the House will be as glad as I am that Mr. Duckworth, the Managing Director of N.R.D.C., has accepted my invitation to a position on the Atomic Energy Authority. I have said publicly before, and I now repeat, that we regard co-operation between these two bodies as a very useful development, and that Mr. Duckworth has now joined them is to the advantage of both bodies. The examination which we are having should lead to a programme of development work which will help us to give the sort of technological lift which industry needs, and the Corporation will play a major part in the drawing up of this programme. As I have said, we expect that there will be a substantial expansion in the type of risk and profit-sharing development projects in which the Corporation has been engaged in the last year or two. These are projects brought to the Corporation by particular industrial firms, often for work which the firms themselves have commenced, but whose completion they are unable to finance. The Corporation is then able to put in the necessary finance as an investment which is returned with interest and a payment for risk if the project succeeds. I turn now to the legislative proposals to show how they fit into this programme of action. Clause 1 of the Bill increases the capital at the disposal of the Corporation from £10 million to £25 million. The limit on the time of its use, after having been raised in earlier provisions from five to ten and then to 20 years, will be removed altogether so that we can make advances as required over such period of time as is desirable. It seems to us that this amount of money is a quite reasonable increase in the capital resources of the Corporation when we consider how its activities and investments have been rising in the last two years, particularly following its increased support of joint-venture projects, to which I have just referred. It may be that in a few years this sum will turn out to be inadequate, but I would prefer, and I am sure that the Corporation would also prefer, to wait to see how things go. I hope that the Opposition will now think, as they did when they were the Government, that it would be wise to deal with this in this way, and then consider the matter in the light of developments. Clause 1 also makes certain alterations in the accounting and reporting of the Corporation's activities, consequent on  our decision to transfer the source of its advances from the Consolidated Fund to the Departmental Vote. In addition, we propose to take account of the distinctive nature of the Corporation's work, which I have already described, by amending the financial conditions under which it operates in such a way as to give it a chance within a reasonable period of time of being able to fulfil the break-even Clause in the 1948 Act. We shall do this in two ways. We shall do it, first, by a provision in Clause 2 that if the Corporation has to write off, wholly or partly, a development project that it considers is unlikely to produce a return, it may ask the Minister for a direction that it will no longer be liable to repay a corresponding sum from the advances that have been made to it. It will, by this means, be saved future charges for interest on these advances. If I may, as it were, interrupt myself at this point, it seems to me to be rather an irrational idea to recognise that a project is terminated but to continue to charge the organisation that is working for the country and industry interest on advances for the project, so expecting the Corporation to accept a continued liability in regard to something that it has already been determined is not to go on. That seems to be quite irrational when we are, at the same time, talking of advancing further sums of money. I therefore hope that the Opposition, which had all these factors in front of them at the time, will agree that what is suggested is a sensible step to take. We also feel that it is quite logical to do this when we recognise that this is a body set up to take unusual risks, but is, nevertheless, required, if possible, to balance its accounts. Clause 2 also provides that any amount so written off shall still count against the £25 million limit of advances, and that, if any written-off asset subsequently recovers in value, the Minister may revive it and the liability for the corresponding advance. Under subsection (10) of this Clause, the Corporation may ask for this writing-off procedure to be applied to the losses it has incurred already and which represent a heavy burden on its balance-sheet. All these actions must be recorded in the annual reports which   the Minister has to lay before Parliament. The second way in which we propose to alter the financial conditions under which the Corporation operates is dealt with in Clause 3. This will enable us to relieve the Corporation of the burden of interest for the first eight years of any advance, corresponding to the average maturity period of a development project. This will be done by making corresponding grants from the Vote of my Department. We propose that the Clause can be retrospective in action, so that the Minister may apply it to the appropriate share of the past interest due, which stands in the Corporation's balance-sheet. I now turn to Clause 4, which extends the scope of the Corporation's activities further than was envisaged in the proposals announced by the previous Administration. Its purpose is to enable Government Departments—with the exception of the Post Office, which already has the power to do so—to ask the Corporation to undertake projects at the expense of their own Votes, and to pay the Corporation a management fee for doing this. We attach considerable importance to this Clause. Hon. Members will recognise that it is a replacement of Section 5 of the 1948 Act, which simply allowed a Department to put projects in front of the Corporation, and indicated that it might reimburse the Corporation for losses incurred. We do not think that it is sufficiently attractive if Departments merely put their ideas in front of the Corporation without expecting them to accept the position of paying it a management fee for doing work on their behalf. As the House knows, many Government Departments, apart from those with direct responsibilities for research and development financed from their own Votes, have a close relationship with certain industries—whether it be as bulk purchasers, as sponsors, or in other ways—and have a strong interest in seeing that those industries are efficient, competitive, and alive to technological change. We believe that Government Departments have a responsibility to assist and stimulate industry to achieve this state; and that they can use their relationship positively and fruitfully by initiating and supporting advanced development projects.  In the majority of cases, the N.R.D.C., with its experience, should be the preferred instrument for the negotiation and management of such development projects. I should like now to explain two features of Clause 4 which in some ways may appear to be contradictory. On the one hand, the Clause gives the enabling power to the Departments which I have just described; on the other, it also provides that the Minister of Technology must approve the arrangements. At the same time, it gives the Corporation the option to decline to take on projects proposed to it by Government Departments. I think that this provision will meet one or two criticisms that might have been made that without the insertion of these words we were taking away some autonomy from the Corporation. We feel that the Minister of Technology, as the Minister answerable for the Corporation, must keep a general oversight of its operations and prevent it from being overloaded. That is why we say that he must approve the proposal. The Corporation must, however, have the right to decline to carry out a project, partly because there might be incompatibility between a new project and the obligations that the Corporation had itself accepted under an earlier arrangement, and partly because the fact that the Corporation was obliged to negotiate a certain contract would weaken its negotiating position. I hope that it will be sufficient if I deal very briefly with Clauses 5 and 6. Clause 5 tells the Corporation, quite simply, that it may make a profit. That it should be able to do so is right, having regard to the commercial nature of its operations. But it is equally right, in our view, that the Minister should have a say in the disposal of such profits. When we bear in mind the extent to which this Bill proposes to relieve the Corporation of certain financial burdens, we feel that we have the right to be involved in the disbursement of any profits there may be, including reimbursement and repayment to the Treasury if the opportunity should arise. Clause 6 enables the Minister to increase the membership of the Corporation by two. As hon. Members interested will know, the present membership is   10, and we propose to increase it to 12 because we propose to extend the Corporation's activities, and it is, therefore, necessary to provide the right spread of expertise in industry and commerce and the various technological and scientific disciplines in which the Corporation operates. To sum up, the main provisions of the Bill are the increase in the capital available to the N.R.D.C.; the power to write off the debt corresponding to its ascertained losses; to counterbalance by grant the burden of its interest for a period and, finally, the power to use the Corporation as an instrument for a programme of civil development contracts—
