gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence which the House and this Committee so generously bestow on an hon. Member making his first speech. In optimistic anticipation of receiving that preferential treatment, I wish to thank hon. Members very much indeed. I am as grateful as they themselves were on the day when they made their maiden speeches. I thank you, Sir James, for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate. I wish to respect the precedents of the House and, in consequence, so far as possible my speech will be politically non-contentious. I do not intend, except in passing, to refer to the various details of the proposals in the Budget. Otherwise I should be led into contentious matters. I wish to get back to basic principles which should be kept in mind in relation to direct taxation in which I am interested at the moment. In considering fiscal policy, I am sure the Committee will be with me in agreeing that it should be efficient, economic and effective, I have no doubt that every hon. Member will agree that it is a good thing to promote enthusiasm for earning money. There is also an equal or even a greater need to encourage the promotion of a prosperous community, but these two needs do not necessarily ride together for the simple reason that some ways of making money may not help the economy. It is perhaps appropriate to ask just how far do the economic circumstances in which we live and present-day taxation go towards encouraging these two important national needs—to earn more and to prosper the community. Direct taxation is considered by many taxpayers to be penal, and I think that myself. The burden has been considerably reduced since the war, nevertheless the present rates are still considered by   many to be quite unwarranted and to provide a brake on both enthusiasm and initiative. When taxation is considered to be too high, one of the certain outcomes is that far more effort is put into the procuring of tax-free income because of the enormous inroads which taxation makes into tax income. That is one of the problems we are running into today. The greater an income the greater the proportion of tax payable on it. This can still rise to as much as 17s. 9d. in the £ on part of that income. As incomes rise there is an increasing proportionate difference between the net income after tax and the gross income if the source is tax-free. Where, then, lies the inducement for man to devote all his energies voluntarily and full time to his basic employment when the harder he works and the more he earns the greater the impact of taxation upon every extra £ he earns? A compelling natural inclination is generated to search for tax-free revenue in all classes of society. I wish to consider three instances. The first is a very comfortably-off single business owner or high executive who earns perhaps £10,000 a year. Even with the new Surtax benefits, which he will not recover until next year, he will suffer direct taxation of approximately £4,000. He is left with less than £6,000. We are putting him in the position in which he seeks to find income outside which is not taxable. Which hon. Members of this House would prefer £6,000 to £10,000? The inference is obvious. This class of citizen includes a proportion who spend one or two days a week on other pursuits, studying form either on the Stock Exchange, on the race course, or elsewhere. In doing so they are neglecting their own basic business in which they are specially trained and in which they are expert. There is a diminution in the personal productivity of the business in which they are trained and in which they could be most productive. They personally gain, and few can blame them, but the country suffers. Another class to whom I refer are craftsmen, that section of workmen of which the country is so desperately in need and so desperately short. This type of workman fights, and often strikes, for shorter working hours. The reason often is not so much that he  wants to work fewer hours but that with a five-day week and an earlier knocking-off time he is able to find part-time jobs outside his normal business, and very often outside his trade. He is not interested if that part-time work is on a P.A.Y.E. basis. The part-time remuneration must be tax-free. The third class is the class of the community who one might say have not joined the Income Tax club and have no intention of joining. A man with three children can earn nearly £14 a week without paying Income Tax. Some of these men feel they do not want to pay Income Tax, which they think unfair. In all these three classes we have a reduction of productivity in the business in which they are most expert. We should carefully consider the root cause of this restriction of labour and output in these classes. Basically, it is because direct taxation is too high. The average man thinks this. When such a situation is found to exist a breach of the law is not looked upon as serious, and evasion is even considered by many to be clever, especially if it is legal evasion. A law must not only be good and sound, but must also be seen to be good and acknowledged to be sound in order to be fully effective. Clearly what is needed is a fiscal system which will lead, not drive, away from the pursuit of tax-free sources and towards encouraging a full week's work in basic employment. This will be achieved only by making it advantageous and attractive to the worker and not by compulsion. Taxing some speculative gains is a welcome and interesting provision in the Budget and will go some way towards what we want to achieve. This is making tax-free gains less attractive, but I believe this, although sound and equitable in principle, is tackling things rather the wrong way round. We need to make direct taxation less oppressive, to lighten its impact upon the Friday's pay packet or the monthly cheque, to allow the worker or the executive to take home more of what he earns. In this way he will be much more likely to be enthused to work harder and discouraged from seeking tax-free earnings to the detriment of his own business. This is what the country and our economy need as a spur to extra productivity. I appreciate that the immediate riposte to be expected from the Treasury is that we cannot afford the loss of revenue resulting from reduced direct taxation, but I think it possible that a loss of revenue would not necessarily result. At present, on personal earnings of about £23,000 million tax amounts to £2,100 million, and on company profits of £3,300 million tax amounts to £1,100 million. If direct taxation is cut by 5 per cent. the immediate and initial cost to the revenue will be about £160 million, but it is certain that there will immediately be a trend towards additional productivity which must provide additional taxable income which will result overnight because tax is reduced. We know the law of diminishing returns which the Chancellor risks bringing into operation every time he increases the duty on such things as beer, tobacco and fur coats, but there is also the law of increasing returns which is likely to come into force if we reduce direct taxation and which is likely to produce revenue which will offset the amount of the reduction. If, for instance, a 5 per cent. reduction in direct taxation encouraged a 5 per cent. increase in productivity, as I think it would, earnings throughout the country would increase by £1,300 million, which is an enormous achievement. I am sure that it is easily within the capacity of the people of this country to uplift their productivity by 5 per cent. We should earn another £1,300 million, and the extra tax on that would be about £170 million at present rates. It would more than cover the cost of reducing taxation by 5 per cent. If one had a 10 per cent. tax reduction and achieved 10 per cent. extra productivity, the position would be the same in that savings would outweigh the cost of the tax reduction. This suggestion, if implemented, could mean that personal and company incomes could be uplifted considerably without any extra tax being payable on it at all. The extra earnings would be tax-free, in effect. In one single act and without any loss of revenue, we might well be able to put this country's productivity back on its feet, which is the overriding need, to bring back a much-overdue desire of willingness to do a day's work for a day's pay and at the  same time to clamp down upon the unhealthy scramble for tax-free earnings. I do not suggest a hazardous slash in direct taxation as a highly speculative venture. What I suggest is a modest excursion into taking the people into our confidence. We could say to them, ""Here is a 5 per cent. tax reduction as an experiment. We expect extra productivity, but if we do not get it we may have to reimpose that tax. If we get it, you may keep the tax reduction and we shall go further with the experiment."" Surely this is worth trying. Surely with proper presentation and efficient salesmanship it could succeed. It could well provide the means by which the taxpayer is encouraged into a partnership with the Chancellor—an extraordinary situation, but it could happen —a partnership in which the taxpayer has every encouragement to earn more, all to his own personal gain, and a partnership which would be of clear benefit to the national economy. A very honourable Member of the House once said, ""Trust the people"". I believe that if we went out to the country with a proposal on the lines of my thoughts, the people would respond. I believe that it might well set the spark to the imagination and begin what we all need—the rejuvenation of the idea of making money and putting the economy on its feet. We shall, of course, never have taxpayers elbowing one another aside in a scramble to pay their taxes quickly, but we could well move a step or two in the direction of achieving a state of painless extraction and at the same time bring about an uplift in productivity. It is with these reasons in mind, but with considerable diffidence, that I have put my views before the House.
