gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me this opportunity to address the House for the first time. I am mindful of Mr. Speaker's comments last Friday concerning conciseness of speech, and I shall attempt to adhere to his ruling, having due respect to the length of both your memory and Mr. Speaker's. In accordance with the tradition of the House, I wish to place on record on behalf of the electors of Bury and Radcliffe the appreciation felt by all constituents for the service rendered to them over four years by the previous Member of Parliament for my constituency, Mr. Michael Fidler. Throughout his parliamentary service, my predecessor represented the people of the constituency in a diligent and efficient manner, building for himself a high level of personal representation. His reputation both inside and outside the House for the work he did on behalf of the constituency is both well known and greatly admired. I personally could not wish for a greater objective than to follow Michael Fidler's standards of service and, if possible, to seek to improve upon them. Hon. Members will know that, as well as being known as the original home of the black pudding, Bury is famous for other parliamentarians, too. Our most famous son was Robert Peel, the great reforming Prime Minister of the last century, founder of the police force, a man who was successively Chief Secretary of State for Ireland, Home Secretary and Leader of the Conservative Party that emerged after the 1832 Reform Act. Peel's policies in the 19th century did much to ease this country's social and economic transition from an agricultural and mercantile nation to an industrial society. It is with more than a little of Prime Minister Peel's ghost in the background that I wish to raise with the House an issue that is once again threatening Lancashire's social and economic stability.  The House will recall that the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. Smith) raised with the Prime Minister at the opening of this debate the serious situation facing the Lancashire textile industry as a consequence of the increased imports of cotton yarns, particularly from Greece and Turkey. Industrialists and constituents have mentioned this problem to me. Although it may be a contentious issue, I make no apology to the House for representing to the best of my ability the problems and potential dangers facing the textile industry in my constituency. I have received the correspondence that my predecessor initiated with the Department of Industry. I have visited the Peel Mills Group in my constituency and I wish to indicate to the House the need for urgent and immediate action. In replying to my predecessor on 9th May this year, the hon. Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher), the Under-Secretary of State for Industry, stated: In the particular case of Turkey""— and hon. Members will be aware that Turkey is an EEC Mediterranean associate country— the increase in UK cotton yarn imports to 366 tonnes in 1973 was significant when compared with 30 tonnes imported in 1972. Even so, this cannot be really considered against the perspective of the overall total imports to amount to disruptive proportions. For the benefit of hon. Members let me say that the total imports for 1973 were 1,408 tonnes from all Mediterranean countries. The Minister continued: Should imports become so""— I presume he means disruptive— the terms of the EEC-Turkey agreement would not prevent us from taking action to avoid unacceptable social and economic consequences. I should like to inform the hon. Member for Oldham, West that cotton yarn imports this year for the period January to June amount to 1,920 tonnes from Turkey alone. That is a 500 per cent. increase, within six months, over last year's figure—more in six months than for the whole of last year from all the Mediterranean associated countries. The social and economic consequences about which he spoke are now being felt by the industry and, more particularly to me, by the textile operatives in my constituency. Within the last two months a 100 per cent. take-away from warehouses of homespun yarn has dropped to a 30 per cent. take-away, and the consequence has been that production has been cut back, overtime has been cancelled, shift working has been discontinued, and four-day working weeks have been implemented with the threat of further reductions to a three-day week; indeed, some mills are facing total closure. Hon. Members will recall the old schoolday doggerel that Britain's bread hangs on Lancashire thread. Quite literally, the bread of hundreds of my constituents and thousands of Lancashire textile operatives hangs on where we buy our thread. During the debate hon. Members questioned the definition of a social contract. If anything, surely a social contract to the industry and to the workers in textiles means the ability and the opportunity to work a fair working week, and at the very least to produce goods for the home market with some measure of protection from the dumping of cheap cotton yarns imported at a subsidised cost from the country of origin. The industry is not asking for money. It is not frightened of competition on equal terms. It is willing to invest to maintain an efficient textile industry. But it needs, now more than ever, the same Government protection that other countries give to their home-based industries when they are faced with similar threats of import dumping. The industry has a good labour relations record but, within three weeks, men and women—it is a feature of the textile industry that very often a man and his wife work at the same mill—who were being exhorted to work shifts and extra overtime are now being laid off work. I warn those not inside the industry who are merely consumers of the products that cheap imported cotton yarn does not necessarily mean cheap consumer goods. When the market is up, those countries sell at our consumer prices; only when the market is down do they undercut. I fear that, should they gain a total monopoly due to the collapse of the Lancashire textile industry, they will be able to charge their own price. They will do  just that—and what price price restraint then? The Gracious Speech refers to the establishment of a more liberal pattern of trade and the provision of aid to underdeveloped countries. I support these ideals. The textile industry, mindful of its part in a social trading pattern, also supports these ideals. But both of us say, ""Not at any cost"". The cost should not be the sacrifice of our home-based industries. There is a balance to be achieved —a balance between aid, development, trade and home industry support. If anyone doubts our sincerity, I remind the House that the textile industry has sacrificed more than most in attempting to find this balance, particularly during the last 20 years. Our record of principles in politics goes back over 100 years, to the American Civil War, when Lancashire spinners refused to work slave-picked cotton. The disruptive proportions of imports referred to by the Under-Secretary of State for Industry are now upon us. Unacceptable social and economic consequences are here, and therefore, on behalf of my constituency, I request the action promised. It is recorded that when another of my predecessors for the Bury constituency, Mr. Walter Fletcher, who was a Member for 10 years from 1945 to 1955, made his maiden speech, Mr. Speaker told him to hurry and get on with it. I am grateful for your tolerance, Mr. Speaker, and that of hon. Members for listening so attentively. I trust that I have made the House fully aware of the impending disaster to the textile industry. If I have to demonstrate my concern further, I am prepared to don sackcloth and ashes, carrying the penitential candle, and walk to the Department of Trade in order to bring home to it the urgency of our situation. The motto of my town, loosely translated, means that hard work will solve any problem. But to do that we need industry.
