gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is my first attempt to speak in this House, my maiden speech. I recognise that the House has many conventions with which I am not yet familiar. I hope that Mr. Speaker will waive the usual procedure if I step over any lines of convention. I believe that it is a convention of this House that one compliments one's predecessor. The Marquess of Hamilton, who held the seat of Fermanagh and South Tyrone before me, represented Fermanagh and South Tyrone as well as he could, according to his lights, and I compliment him on representing Fermanagh and South Tyrone according to his lights. Unfortunately there are a great number of people in Fermanagh and South Tyrone who would not compliment the Marquess of Hamilton on representing the seat according to his lights. It is my clear duty to point out to this House, and it will be my clear duty and my intention from now on to keep pointing out to this House, until it gets it into its head, that the partition solution for Ireland has obviously and evidently failed. Now after 50 years of partition   we have a situation where this House has been forced to send 11,000 troops to the Province where Protestants and Catholics are openly at war in the streets of Belfast and elsewhere. I come here as an Irishman. I do not come here to beg favours or cadge concessions from this House. I come here to assert the rights of the minority in Northern Ireland, which, I will point out to the House, is an artificially created minority. These rights have not, unfortunately, been asserted in this House for a very long time; they have not been asserted for the people I represent in Fermanagh and South Tyrone. Therefore, I give notice to the House that on many occasions it will be my duty to attempt to instruct this House that the partition solution has been inevitably a failure and it is time this House changed its mind and looked for another solution. The Home Secretary, earlier today, posed the question: why do the people not get on very well in Northern Ireland? Why is there all this trouble? Why is it that Englishmen have been noted for their lack of understanding of Ireland? These are very good questions. I propose to answer them briefly. It is in Northern Ireland an oversimplification, certainly so far as the minority and a great proportion of the fair-minded members of the majority are concerned, to say that Stormont is the cause of unrest in Northern Ireland. For 50 years this House has had the chance, an excellent chance, in Northern Ireland, because there was a one-party Government all along, to solve the Northern Ireland problem; but the problem has got worse and steadily worse. I realise that many hon. Members do not fully understand what Stormont is all about. Stormont is built on sectarianism the vast majority of the members of Stormont and of the Government of Stormont belong to the Orange Order. I am delighted that the Worshipful Grand Master, the hon. and gallant Member for Down, South (Captain Orr), is present. To the Catholic majority the Orange Order is like a red rag to a bull because it was founded for the purpose of keeping the Catholics down. The Worshipful Grand Master has mouthed pious platitudes about reassuring the minority in Northern Ireland. He wants to impress upon the Catholic minority that they have  nothing to fear from a Government which is drawn completely from the Orange Order. Yet, if one of the Catholic minority who happens to be a friend of the Worshipful Grand Master dies, according to the rules of his institution the Worshipful Grand Master cannot go into the church where that man's funeral service is being held. Many members of the institution have done so and have been expelled from the Orange Order for entering a Roman Catholic church. That is the Order that is in control in Northern Ireland. The Orange Order was bad enough, but another ""ism"" has currently taken over in Northern Ireland. It is clear from the last election that there has been a definite swing towards Paisleyism. The Orange Order was not staunch enough, and the civil rights movement came along and cracked the great edifice of the Orange Order. The most primitive unionism took heart and found a saviour and leader in the Rev. Paisley. The tragedy of Northern Ireland is that there is no possibility of normal political development. The Unionist Government must see to it that Protestants and Catholics are kept apart, because if they are allowed to become friendly and united the Government's basis for power disappears and they are finished. Consequently, there is no political development of any sort along normal democratic right/left/centre lines. The Unionist Party cannot allow a left or centre policy but must depend at all times on religious bigotry. Much has been said about the reforms, but I for one am not very impressed by the reforms which have so far been offered. Little or nothing has been granted. We did get ""one man one vote"", but that was a fundamental right which should have been granted 50 years ago, and no one deserves any credit for that. Other reforms have been drafted, but they are of such fundamental and basic significance in a democracy that no one should get credit for them; yet people are applauding the Unionist Government for being progressive and reforming. They are no such thing, and very little change of heart has come from Stormont. The only House that can change things in Northern Ireland in the immediate future is this House if it will assume   more responsibility than it has previously assumed. Only if this House continues to breathe down the neck of Stormont and of the Prime Minister, the Government and the Cabinet in Stormont, will changes come, but then only grudgingly, as always. I want to mention the much-discussed subject of parades. I will deal with only one parade which I witnessed. The town of Coalisland lies in my constituency and it is more than 90 per cent. Catholic. On Wednesday evening a parade which was supposed to commemorate the battle of the Somme took place in Coalisland. Despite numerous warnings of trouble which had been given by Mr. Austin Currie the Member of Parliament for East Tyrone, myself and various leaders of public opinion, this Orange parade in a most provocative fashion came through Coalisland, and it took the British military to escort the parade. I defend the individual right of any persons to march and to protest. If they have a point to make they have a perfect right to demonstrate. But it cannot be said that the Orange parades are either protesting or making a fair point. That point was made 300 years ago, and all they are doing is to rub salt into the wounds of the poor minority in Northern Ireland. There was trouble with this parade, as had been forecast. Earlier that day the R.U.C. in that area invoked the Special Powers Act and visited the homes of several of my constituents to search for arms. They did not find any arms. It is significant that no search was made in the New Mills area, which is near Coalisland. This was borne out by the fact that in the early hours of Thursday morning Mr. Austin Currie, M.P. for East Tyrone, was narrowly missed by three bullets which passed through the front part of his house. It is commonly believed in that area that the people who fired those shots, just as they did last August and have since thrown bombs at his house, came from the New Mills or Moygashel areas, which are staunch Protestant areas. No search for arms was made in those areas, but it was demonstrated later that there were sufficient arms there to mount an attack on Austin Currie. I should like the House to note one point about the R.U.C. on which I make a strong representation. The Hunt Report recommended that the R.U.C. should change the colour of its uniform. I grant that this is a small point, but it is a prime example of the way that the Unionist machine works in Northern Ireland. The Unionists will hang on to every little thing. True indeed is the saying, ""What we have we hold; no surrender."" They are not prepared to surrender the colour of the uniform. For the people of Bogside and of parts of Belfast, that uniform holds nothing but terror and the most unpleasant memories. Therefore, the sooner the R.U.C. changes its uniform and attempts to assume its new look, the better for all in Northern Ireland. I would speak on behalf of the hon. Member for Mid-Ulster (Miss Devlin), who, unfortunately, is incarcerated in gaol, but I understand that another of my hon. Friends will be speaking on her behalf. I deplore the complete injustice of the sentence imposed on the hon. Member for Mid-Ulster. I was then and I am still appalled at the sheer political stupidity of the Unionist Government in carrying out the sentence by putting the hon. Lady in gaol. They could not have picked a worse time. From their point of view, knowing their interests and inclinations, it is probably the best time. But, coming at a time of confrontation and unrest following our right-wing hard liner success in the recent election, coming up to 12th July and the provocative Orange parades, the gaoling of the hon. Member for Mid-Ulster, from the point of view of a great number of people in Northern Ireland, is the final straw. Now that everyone is suitably impressed that the law has taken its due course and nobody can claim that the courts have been interfered with, in the interests of peace in Northern Ireland, I appeal to the Home Secretary, in the interests of justice, in the interests of the hon. Member herself and of her 70,000 constituents, to exercise his discretion in the matter and to release her forthwith. Hon. Members in this House know of the Border which divides the North from the South. But there is another border in Northern Ireland which perhaps many do not know about. I speak about a vicious economic border that exists in   Northern Ireland and separates the three counties of Derry, Tyrone and my native Fermanagh from the rest. It is known as the West of the Bann policy. This policy has been operated viciously by the Unionist machine in Stormont for 15 years. The reason is simple. In Derry, Tyrone and, especially, Fermanagh there is an anti-Unionist, Nationalist, Catholic majority. That is a dangerous set of circumstances for the Unionists. Therefore, it is their avowed intention to diminish that majority by the only method at their disposal—to force them either to leave the country, to emigrate to this country or further afield, or to go East of the Bann to new cities like Craigavon. Clearly, the attempt is to create in and around Belfast something like a modern city state, the prototype of which was established in Greece long ago. But it is not only Catholics West of the Bann who suffer. It is the unfortunate Protestants who, by accident of birth, find themselves in an area which is predominantly Catholic. They, too, suffer the pernicious results of this West of the Bann policy. I come now to a subject which I know particularly well and on which I hope to instruct this House closely. In County Fermanagh, the son of the former Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Captain John Brooke, is chairman of the county council. That is the new amalgamated council. It is the council which was to hit the headlines in Northern Ireland, the new, revitalised, efficient machine. Let me give the statistics. They can be checked anyway, and I have a number of booklets in my briefcase which I intend to distribute. In County Fermanagh at the moment there is something of the order of a 55 per cent. anti-Unionist majority. The county council comprises 52 members, of whom 35 represent the minority and 17 represent us, the majority. That is arithmetically impossible, one might think. But it is not to anyone who knows Unionism and Northern Ireland. It is a simple operation at which the Unionists have become expert. It is pure gerrymandering. How else could a majority be represented by 17 councillors and a minority by twice the number? The present figures are 35 and 17. They were meant to be 36 and 16.  However, a certain gentleman got a seat that he was not supposed to win when he beat the Unionists. The Stormont régime have now brought out their Local Government Reform Bill. It is intended to leave County Fermanagh centred on Enniskillen. Over the years, the Stormont Government have made a number of recommendations. We know to our grief never to count our chickens before they are hatched. Never have the Stormont Government done what they said they would do. A central housing authority has long been promised. It was to be scrupulously fair. Houses were to be let so fairly that people would not believe it. Already the Stormont Government are prevaricating and going back on their word. The same applies to the county council. I want to appeal to Her Majesty's Government. Pressure should be brought to bear on Stormont. As I understand it, that can be done. By a stroke of the pen, the Minister of Development or whoever is responsible can abolish Fermanagh County Council and the Dungannon District Council where minorities of councillors represent majorities. We are told that reform will come in two years. Let us wait and see. In the meantime, let us abolish the rotten councils which exist and give the people a chance to see that democracy is on the way. Let us abolish Fermanagh County Council and set up machinery whereby justice can be administered in the County of Fermanagh. Nothing could be worse than the council that we have at present. I represent one of the largest and most neglected constituencies in the United Kingdom. Please God, before this term of Parliament has finished I will have instructed hon. Members fully on all the details of the discrimination and neglect that we suffer in Fermanagh, South Tyrone and, speaking in the absence of the hon. Member for Mid-Ulster, also in Mid-Ulster. If there is to be a solution to Ireland and the Irish problem, the people West of the Bann must be redeemed from the economic wasteland in which they live. Money, from here or whatever sources, must be pumped into the area, and the people must be saved from the choice between starving and emigrating East of the Bann.
