gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of this House. I have sat here very patiently today and have listened to so many brilliant  speeches that I am afraid my maiden speech has by now become an old maid. The circumstances which have made this speech possible are, perhaps, in these days of Parliamentary representation, becoming somewhat remote. By that I mean that I have come directly from the benches of a factory to the benches of the Commons, and I think it augurs well for our Parliamentary system that even in these days when these benches are full of legal, journalistic, scholastic and commercial talent, such a thing is still possible. I think it is a good thing for the Labour Party, too, whose strength and balance have always been derived from the essential and the productive members of the working class. The subject of foreign affairs is, I know, a very difficult one for a maiden speech, but I think that all maiden speeches are difficult, and as one has to start somewhere one might as well start on the most difficult. I fought my own election campaign on this subject, and, as hon. Members know, the result was somewhat surprising. The Communists and the pro-Communist elements of the last Parliament have been scattered to the four winds and I am happy to say that I played no small part in this myself. The difficult problems confronting the world, the United Nations organisation and this country in particular, are tremendous, but the greater the problems the greater must be the effort to overcome them. The difficulties of Great Britain are, in my opinion, greater than the difficulties of any other nation. We have always been the potential moral leaders of the world. We changed from potential to actual moral leaders with the advent of the Labour Government in 1945. But we inherited a situation which in every phase of our national life has no parallel in history, and it is to the everlasting credit of the Labour Government that we have made the progress that we have. The disgraceful neglect by hon. Members of the Opposition, who had charge of British foreign policy in the bad years between 1931 and 1939, is something upon which historians will record their just and true verdict. I do not wish to dwell upon it tonight, but the situation confronting us today is in no small measure the result of that neglect. We can only hope to secure and expand   the fortunes and economic destiny of our people, both in this country and in the Commonwealth, if Great Britain is a respected power in foreign affairs, in concert with all freedom-loving democracies on equal terms under the authority of the United Nations. Our greatest problem, in my opinion, is the Asiatic and Far East problem, and I believe the successful settlement of this problem will settle the destiny and the peace of the world for many generations to come—I hope for all time. Despite what has been said today about Germany, I believe India is the focal point upon which our policy and the policy of the United Nations should chiefly concentrate. Its great potential, its millions of population, and its proximity to China are matters of supreme importance. The similarities between their present systems, the religious institutions, the cultures and the abject poverty are at once an object lesson and a challenge to the Western democracies. Too long, far too long, Western civilisation and, in particular, Great Britain, neglected these millions. Our only concern, I think, was to exploit them. If we had lifted them to a higher social plane when we had the opportunity and the power, to a higher degree of social well-being, we should not today be in our present state in foreign affairs. Time is short and time is not on our side in the world today. If we want to save the Far East and India from Communism, we must act boldly and we must act at once. The solution of these problems does not lie in the use of military force or in the atomic bomb or the hydrogen bomb. I say that for consumption in the Soviet Union, too. The solution lies in the immediate expansion to the rest of the world of the Socialism we are now enjoying in this country, and with all possible speed. We must give to these people the practical rewards and applications of democratic Socialism without delay, as an alternative to Communism. They must be offered something better than Communism. The vast majority of them have for centuries been without standing, without hope and without goods in their own land. The United States of America have some very serious thinking to do in these matters. I am, of course, thank-  ful for the generous aid given by the United States through the agency of Marshall Aid, but it is not enough. What is wanted, even in the United States, is a change of political heart and purpose very quickly. I know they are now in a process of moving ever so slowly towards a welfare State. Their great industrial potential, along with our own, can quickly change the political face of the globe. We both need export markets for our economic survival, and the greater the consumer capacity of the rest of the world the greater our own social benefits. Let us uplift these people to a full democracy, a full consumer democracy, and the threat of Communism will vanish for ever. I know this is a tremendous project. We have in this country a political and economic democracy which has been brought to us over a period of 800 years. If we want to secure the freedom of mankind from the tyranny of Communism all over the world, we must marshal all the forces of democracy in a great effort. I find myself today in full agreement with my hon. Friend the Member for Coventry, East (Mr. Crossman) who laid great stress upon the problems of India and the importance of peace in that part of the world. I believe that in that part of the world lies the deciding of the world's peace—that it lies there more than in any other part of the world. It is becoming more patent every day in Western and Eastern Europe that the time will come when the European peoples ruled by Communists will, by their own volition, shake off the people who now dominate them. In Eastern Europe advantage was taken by the Cominform of the fact that physical fortunes and the will to resist after the war were very low indeed. I believe that in years to come the peoples of Eastern Europe will settle this problem for themselves. The position in regard to China and India is, however, far different. We must pay our long outstanding debt to India, give all the help we can to Pakistan and to Pundit Nehru, lift up the peoples of India to full democratic and consumer status as quickly as possible, and let that advance radiate from India through the Far East as an example and alternative to Soviet Communism.
