gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have, in the first place, to crave the indulgence of the House on this my first utterance within its precincts. May I associate myself with what was said by the hon. Member for Daventry (Mr. Manningham-Buller) to the effect that it was a public service to raise this extremely important topic? I will say at once that the Government accept that the position at the moment is unsatisfactory, and that it must be remedied as soon as possible. I would like, if I may, nevertheless to pay a tribute to the work that has been done by the many voluntary organisations which assist poor persons up and down the country, and I would also like to include in the tribute which I venture to pay those many members of the Bar and of the solicitors' profession, some of whom I see before me now, who have assisted in the matter of securing justice for poor persons. The fact remains that the position is unsatisfactory. This complex and manifold problem affects not merely the different courts concerned—police courts, county courts, assize courts and high courts—but it takes on different aspects both in relation to divorce appeals and in relation to the various types of litigation that come before the courts; and, of course, a distinct problem is that of procuring facilities for obtaining legal advice before any litigation has been started. The House, I hope, will not expect me at this stage to say what are the Government's proposals in the matter of dealing with the situation which requires remedying, but this I can say: Reference has been made to the report prepared by the Committee under the chairmanship of Lord   Rushcliffe. The Law Society has been asked to prepare a detailed report covering the various proposals contained in the Rushcliffe Committee's Report on poor persons' procedure. Work is actively in progress on the preparation of that Report, but hon. Members will understand that the Report must of necessity take some time. In particular, the financial aspect of the proposals requires the most careful and anxious consideration, but I can assure the House that the Government have given and are giving, immediate and sympathetic consideration to the various proposals in the Report.
