gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In one way, Mr. Speaker, I would have preferred it, had my maiden speech been on any subject other than education, because I came direct to this House from more than 20 years' service in local-authority schools, the elementary school, the modern senior school, and the secondary school established by the 1944 Act. In addition, I was the elected representative of many of my fellow teachers on national and local bodies. I feel, therefore, that my judgment on matters which so recently were subjects of deep personal and professional concern to me, may appear to lack perspective, but I hope the House will bear with me because I believe it is my duty to try to reflect here the attitude of thousands of my former   colleagues and many of the parents of the children whom I taught. My colleagues, in the main, I regret to say, regarded the Education Bill of 1944 with scepticism, and they have seen no reason since to alter their attitude. As the hon. Member for Aberavon (Mr. Cove) said, many of us thought there were 14 ozs. of religion and 2 ozs. of education in that Bill. In fact, it was crudely perhaps described to me by an experienced headmaster as an Act to make England safe for the Archbishops. Whether that criticism was right or not, I must say that that suspicion which motivated it remains, and this Prayer before the House to-night will, in no way, serve to diminish that suspicion. I regard some of the things that have been said as a reflection on the many thousands of devoted men and women who have entered education primarily with the idea that the job of education is the formation of character. And I unhesitatingly deny that the great majority of the teachers of England are anti-Christian. Indeed, they are Christian in a very true sense. I have been very much impressed with our way of commencing the daily business in this House with an act of worship, and I may say, without fear of contradiction, that in every school which I have served, a similar act of worship opened every day's work, and, in some cases, closed it every evening, with just as reverent an attitude, and, perhaps—if I may venture a criticism—with the pupils and the masters and mistresses taking a rather more individual share in it. This can be proved to this House by the attitude of returning soldiers and serving women. Very often their first act after going back to their homes is to come to their school, and they ask to be allowed to stay for the service and to stand in the master's line in order to recapture something the memory of which was very dear to them in Burma, in Germany, or elsewhere, during the war. That is the spirit which I have found among my colleagues for more than 20 years with regard to having clergymen, whose training is primarily in theological exposition, coming to teach us who are trained in the psychology of childhood, and are training pupils to be good men  and women in the world in which they are growing up. It is a very bad reflection on my very good friends still happily in the teaching profession. I may have already wearied the House with my maiden speech, but I must go on, because there are one or two other points which may not have occurred to hon. Members opposite. First, the Act has not been entirely welcomed, to put it mildly, by the main body of those of us who have served in what used to be the schools under the elementary code. I for one was sorry to see the old Part III authorities disappear. We have been impatient about appointed days, but we do not in the main object to the insistence upon a daily act of worship, because it was a normal thing in the vast majority of schools under local authorities, in the elementary, senior, modern and secondary schools that I know, and I have had a pretty wide experience up and down the country. Schools have also had, over a much longer time than appeared, an agreed syllabus. In many large areas there has been an agreed syllabus for many years. What is more the teachers themselves know that the visiting clergy whose habit it was to visit us once a year in order to see whether we had done the job, gave enthusiastic reports, as a general rule, not only on the fact that the Scriptures were known, but that the pupils had gained a reverent attitude through the teaching in the schools. No clergyman could give us more than we have had already from teachers of all denominations. Clergymen who came in for the examinations proved themselves rather poor at understanding the minds of the children. I have writhed time and again as some young clergyman or Nonconformist parson—and I speak quite fairly, because I am a Nonconformist—would ask one of the boys of 13 to explain the chronology of the Pentateuch, to put in order of sequence the Messianic prophecies of some obscure New Testament prophet, to explain the pessimism of Jeremiah. I am quoting actual cases in my own experience. Believe me, the pessimism of Jeremiah was nothing to the pessimism of my classes when questioned like that by learned clergymen, who, hon. Members opposite tell us, will be very good additions to the teaching profession. There has been much clouding of the issues to-night, I am afraid. I have a document on Regulation 23, issued by the Church Education League. We are asked not to exclude from the schools men of high academic qualifications for the teaching of history, geography and what you will, but this brochure of the Church Education League says: Clergy and ministers are liable to the same tests as other teachers and by their special training are particularly qualified for the work of religious instruction. What is wrong is that many of my colleagues in the teaching profession would feel themselves deprived of a large part of their work if they were to be ousted from teaching during the little periods of worship because someone ""more qualified"" had come on the staff. I am a trifle suspicious that it is because we have a new order in education that the clergy want to come in. I have noticed that they have not been so anxious to assist in training with classes of 50 or 60 in the primary schools. I ask the Minister to stand firm on the reasonable compromise in Regulation 23 and to remember that, while a very eloquent case has been made out for the unfortunate clergymen—who appear to have mistaken their vocation and must come into the schools as a consolation prize—there are the men and women with a true vocation who have stuck to the schools and formed the characters which have helped to win this war.
