gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising for the first time in this historic assembly, I crave the indulgence which the House so graciously affords to the inexperienced new Member. I must confess that I feel very much as though I were in a dentist's waiting room, much against my better judgment and on the persuasion of my friends, who assured me that the longer the waiting, the greater the agony would be when the occasion came. I had wished to speak on the subject of full employment and also, as I have the privilege and honour to represent the Park Division of Sheffield, I should have liked to say something on steel; but in view of the lateness of the hour, I will confine myself to the question of housing which I believe is the greatest single problem of domestic policy facing the country at the present time. In my constituency there are very many distressing conditions. Families are living six in a room There are streets of back-to-back houses, many of them condemned. One woman, who is paying 25s. a week for one room for her family, in desperation asked me if the local authority could not provide caravans on empty sites as a temporary expedient to  deal with the worst cases. It is an immense problem, and I ask that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Health, the local authorities and the building industry —because the building of houses is a tripartite operation, although my right hon. Friend gets more than his share of the cane—to press forward with the building of houses as fast as, and with the utmost vigour that, the national economy will permit. In the last five years a good deal has been done, but a great deal more remains to be done. For the first time, the provision of houses is being considered as a social and not as an economic problem. It is a revolution of thought, that needs and not means should determine priority. It is a revolution as large as that in the sphere of employment, for today if a man loses his job he looks to the Government and no longer regards it as an act of God or as due to the inefficiency of his employer. These are two great responsibilities which we on this side of the House will do our utmost to discharge. But the shortage of decent houses is no new matter. My own father was for 20 years on the waiting list of a local council and we never got a house. He spent the whole of his married life of 25 years in rooms in somebody else's house. This was not in a distressed area. It was in the constituency of the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden). I wish to examine the claims made by the Conservative Party that private enterprise did then and could now provide new houses for the people. Other hon. Members have stressed the comparison between the record of the Conservative Government in the five years after 1918 and the record for the period from 1945. I wish to consider, on the territory of the enemy, as it were, the situation in the building peak of the 1930's. and to ask what sort of houses were built and for whom they were built. For example, in 1935 there were 327,000 houses built, 287,000 by private enterprise and 40,000 by the local authorities —a ratio of seven to one. This, I think, was the peak year of private enterprise. This building was financed largely by building societies and insurance companies, and I wish to explode the myth that the building society movement is a working-class or lower middle-class movement. What are the facts? On the saving side, on the only figures available, those of one of the largest societies, in 1932 only 6.8 per cent. of the share capital was in accounts of less than £100. I ask hon. Members, how many working-class or lower middle-class families had £100 to their name in 1932—or at any time in the inter-war period? On the loan side, the average of loans in the whole period never fell below £500, and since the loan is only 75 to 80 per cent. of the cost of the house, the average value of houses financed was nearly £700. In one large society only 7 per cent. of the loans in 1932 were below £400, and in 1939, only 47 per cent. were below £600, representing an £800 house. The average rate of interest varied from six per cent. in 1930 to 4½ per cent. from 1935, and the maximum period of repayment was 20 years. Therefore, on the most favourable terms of the late thirties, at £600 for a house at 4½ per cent. for 20 years, the weekly rate of repayment was 18s. exclusive of rates, insurance and repairs. If we make an allowance for those items, the amount per week was in the region of 25s. For the very cheapest jerry-built houses—and some hon. Members will remember the strikes and legal battles which the people in those houses had with some societies in the late thirties—the cost was about £400. That represents, on the best terms, a weekly comprehensive cost of 17s. 6d. The right hon. and gallant Member for Kelvingrove (Lieut.-Colonel Elliot) quoted a figure of 14s. Actually, I think that he could have gone lower on the mere point of the repayment of capital and interest, but that is exclusive of rates, compulsory insurance and, of course, an allowance for repairs. At this time the average earnings of an adult male worker were about £3 a week and there were 1,500,000 people who had no wages at all. There were no food subsidies and no family allowances then. It is common sense that the rate of saving involved in buying in 20 years a house whose life is spread over 60 years, is beyond the scope of a working man. What is the position today? At an inclusive price of £1,500 and a rate of interest of four per cent., which is quite  favourable, the repayment is £2 2s. 6d. per week. Then there are rates and insurance of about 7s. or 8s. to be considered. A figure of £2 10s. over 20 years purchase is the minimum possible to become an owner-occupier today. How many people can afford that? The interest alone over the period of 20 years represents £700 over and above the cost of the house. The conclusion is that private enterprise cannot provide, and never has provided, houses for working-class and lower middle-class people, except the cast off houses which the owner-occupiers vacate when they go to new houses. If that is the policy of hon. Gentlemen opposite on housing, I ask them to tell us so fairly and squarely. This is an American experience, too. There it is impossible to build a working-class house, despite the many technical advantages and the absence of foreign exchange difficulties, without a subsidy. I talked to an American housing official during the weekend, and he told me two rules of thumb which they operate there and which I recommend to hon. Members as a guide in this discussion. The first is that no 'one can afford to pay more than 20 per cent. to 25 per cent. of his income on interest and repayment for accommodation. The second is that no one can afford to borrow more than twice his annual income. How, therefore, would setting the builders free solve the problem of housing in this country? Hon. Members opposite may protest that they would also give priority, as does my right hon. Friend the Minister of Health, to local authority building on which subsidies are paid and the repayment is based on 60 years which, of course, reduces the weekly economic rent. But they cannot have it both ways. They must consider housing in the light of their deflationary policy—their alleged reduction in costs and in the price level. Deflation means a higher rate of interest, and a rise of only one per cent. in the rate of interest over a 60-year period adds £12 a year to the economic rent of the house—nearly 5s. a week. I ask hon. Members opposite whether they would increase subsidies by an amount to offset that 5s. and, if they would, how would they at the same time reduce Government expenditure? For example, if we take a £1,500 house, inclusive of land and all charges, which   is the average cost today, we find that at three per cent. the economic rent over 60 years is £54 a year exclusive of rates, insurance and repairs. At four per cent. the economic rent is £66. The total interest on the original £1,500 at four per cent. is about £2,500, and at three per cent. it is £1,750. Hon. Gentlemen opposite may protest that they will cut costs. I will not inquire how, because building is a private enterprise industry and is presumably efficient, so that cost reductions must come either from wages or profits. I will not attempt to guess from which they would come. But I will assume, for the sake of argument, that costs could be reduced by 20 per cent., which is five per cent. above the maximum advocated by the hon. Member for Wallasey (Mr. Marples). I will assume that costs could be reduced to £1,200. This at four per cent. would give an economic rent of £53 per annum compared with the £1,500 house at three per cent. with an economic rent of £54. Thus the building economy of £300 would be frittered away to a mere £60 by that one per cent. rise in the rate of interest. If anyone can explain how we can secure deflation without a rise in the rate of interest, I shall be most grateful. I should, in fact, be surprised if the rise in the rate of interest were as little as one per cent. I shudder to think what it means in terms of local authority housing finance if there is a rise of two or three per cent. I would remind hon. Members that the Public Works Loans Board's rate in 1939 was 3¾ per cent. Since the war it has been as low as 2½ per cent., and that has provided a great economy in the cost of house building. In addition, one cannot get deflation unless one cuts investments. If hon. Gentlemen opposite do not wish to cut house building, I wish for my information as a new Member that they would tell us what investments they would cut. Private enterprise cannot provide the houses for those who need them, and local authority building on Conservative lines would give less value and cost more. I submit, therefore, that the housing policy of the Opposition does not stand the test of close examination. We learned by bitter experience between the wars that one cannot eat ""the pie in the sky."" If hon. Gentlemen opposite had their way, we should learn also that we cannot live  in houses on hoardings or in election manifestos.
