gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to ask the House for its customary indulgence towards one who has the privilege of addressing this ancient Assembly for the first time. In my case this request is no traditional formality. Absence—I am glad to say absence with leave—in Germany has prevented me from acquiring what our American friends might describe as the ""know-how"" of this distinguished Assembly. It is because I have spent most of the last year in Germany, and because I think that Germany is the very nerve centre of our international relations, that I ask leave to speak about Germany and will resist the temptation to follow the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler) on his tour d'horizon. Since I returned to England, I have been struck by the fact that many of my fellow countrymen, in characteristic  British fashion, follow the practice which is almost universal in Germany of putting all the blame for Germany's present misery upon the occupation authorities, and especially upon the British occupation authorities. It is astonishing how many of our fellow countrymen in England and how many Germans deliberately shut their eyes to the fact that Germany's misery is largely of her own making, and I should like to underline the warning that my right hon. Friend has given about the danger of sentimentality in this matter. We are accused in Germany of wanting to annihilate the German people and of depriving them of food because that is our intention. But Germany is short of food, as we are short of food, because her armies ravaged Europe from Calais to Stalingrad, and because they laid waste the farms of people whose only wish was to live in peace. Then again, with regard to the housing problem in Germany, there is a suggestion, which I regret to say I have even heard hinted at in this House, that Germany's housing difficulties are due to brutal requisitioning by our military government authorities. Germany's housing problem is caused by the fact that she initiated the technique of bombing from the air, a technique which she started at Guernica, perfected at Rotterdam and Warsaw, and then extended to our own country. It is unfortunate that it was necessary for the Allied nations to learn that technique, to better it, and to wreak upon Germany the destruction which she initiated upon other countries. I think it is necessary in these times that these things should be said and, if I may say so, said by a Socialist so that they may be heard by German Socialists. I have in recent times addressed a gathering of German Social Democrats at Nuremberg. I addressed them upon the domestic legislation of His Majesty's Government so that I should not enter upon matters which, in German eyes, might seem controversial. But all the questions put to me—and the audience were astonished at the privilege of being able to ask questions—were those which a Nazi might have asked. They were German nationalist questions. I think that in these difficult times the German people should be reminded of their responsibilities in this matter. I am not suggesting that we should adopt any lack of humanity in our attitude towards the   German people; we need to exercise the utmost sympathy in our dealings with them. I also discern a certain amount of sentimentality in our own country in the shape of the belief that Nazism is dead. My experiences in Germany lead me to the unhappy conclusion that that is not true. During the last stages of the Nuremberg trial I received a letter, postmarked in Berlin, and written in German by an anonymous writer, which said: We will answer your pleas for humanity by building bigger and better gas chambers next time. I am not suggesting for a moment that that reflects the prevalent mood of the German people, but it is imperative that we should realise that there are sinister elements in Germany exploiting the misery they created in the hope of rebuilding once more a Nazi movement in Germany. The answer to that sort of political activity is, first, eternal vigilance by our own security authorities, and secondly, and perhaps more important, to encourage the German people to adopt a dynamic political creed and give them a real pointer towards the future. The speech of my right hon. Friend today has done a great deal to point the way to the German people because he has enunciated without qualification that the intention of British administration in Germany is to promote democratic socialism. That needed to be said in the clear terms in which it has been said today, and the misfortune, perhaps, is that it was not said sooner. What we must do now, that clear statement of policy having been enunciated, is to give tangible proof to the Germans that that is, in fact, our policy. I think that it will have a considerable effect, particularly in the sphere of coal production which is of great importance to Germany as it is, of course, to us. At the present time the German miner does not quite know for whom he is working; he has a vague conception that he is the slave of international finance. My right hon. Friend's statement should at least disabuse him about that. The right hon. Gentleman has said that it is imperative that the German people should be given an opportunity of pronouncing a verdict upon this issue of nationalisation. My experience of Germany leads me to believe that they will give the same verdict as the British people have given. There  is, in fact, hardly any controversy in Germany upon the necessity of public ownership of her industry. It is not surprising that that should be so when one remembers the record of those who ran industry in Germany before the war. They pressed a revolver into Hitler's eager hands, and they put millions of money into his pockets. They also created a special fund to finance Himmler, and every year the directors of banks and industries were supplying Himmler with funds. These facts are notorious to the German people, and they do not want to experience the same thing again. Private ownership of industry resulted, in a time of crisis, in the introduction of a political system of Fascism and Nazism which deprived the German working class of its liberties and led to the menaces of war and the general enslavement of those territories which the German armed forces overran. I am confident, therefore, that the statement of my right hon. Friend will give great strength and support to our real friends in Germany at the present time. But I feel that, important and significant as the declaration of aim is, it must be accompanied by positive encouragement to German working class organisations. I discern in Germany a certain diffidence about the development of the trade union movement—a certain anxiety about the development of works councils and vital organisations of that kind which are necessary to give life to the new economic and political set up of Germany. Whatever may remain of German industry and finance must be freed from those who played a vital role in collaborating with Nazism. It is not without significance that Germany's military leaders and her political leaders are being automatically eliminated from positions of responsibility. I have heard, however, a certain criticism in Germany that there is not a sufficient parallel elimination of the leaders of German finance and German industry itself. I think it is not satisfactory that more than a year of military government in Germany has elapsed without an agreed policy being announced as to the fate of the industrialists and financiers. I believe I am right in saying that, with the exception of Krupp, not a single industrialist leader in Germany is at present under charges as a war criminal. It is imperative, in keeping with the statement of my right   hon. Friend, that no cloak of immunity should surround Germany's Nazi economic leaders, and I am sure my right hon. Friend will have no desire whatever to shroud that cloak around them There has been a good deal of vigorous action in the British zone with regard to some of the steel company directors and some of the leaders of the coal syndicates. In spite of these sporadic actions, however, there is no provision for the ultimate disposal of those leaders. Urgent consideration should be given to this problem, so that we may have an end to the era of punishment, and may look forward to the era of reconstruction. Whatever the economic difficulties of Germany, one thing must be clear. My right hon. Friend has made it clear. We must set our faces against reconstructing the German trusts, whatever the difficulties of finance may be and whatever inducements may come from other countries. We must resist that easy line of action at all costs. Who sups with the devil must use a long spoon. It is not possible to exaggerate the dangers of the future of the world if such a tendency were to be encouraged by His Majesty's Government. There are already dangers of a link-up between German industrialists and a Nazi underground movement. It is important that we should bear that fact in mind, in case there should be some tendency to be tolerant towards people like Krupp. I am not suggesting that any hon. Member of this House has shown such a tendency, and in any case it would be improper for me to do so in a maiden speech. There is evidence, however, of an important character as to this connection between German industry and the Nazi underground. A conference took place in Strasburg on 10th August, 1944, between representatives of German industry, in particular of Krupp's and leaders of the German Army, Foreign Office and Nazi Party. At that meeting, pledges were given by Krupp that representatives of that firm would cooperate in financing and developing a Nazi underground movement if Germany met with military defeat. This underground movement contemplated dissemination of political propaganda, building up economic strength and establishing small independent and secret plants in Germany for research and for the development of weapons. These men have courage, determination, and great ruthlessness. It is therefore very important  that everything should be done by His Majesty's Government to support our security measures against these sinister developments. In the economic field we must set our faces against the re-emergence of fanatical Nazis of that calibre. Finally, I would endorse my right hon. Friend's underlining of the vital necessity of unity among the United Nations in dealing with Germany. In the course of last year my right hon. Friend made a great speech in which he quoted with approval a dictum of the late Lord Beaconsfield, which was: Britain and France joined together are an insurance for peace; but Britain, France and Russia joined together is a security for peace. I would add that if to that trio were added the United States of America, we should have an absolute security for peace. It would indeed be a grim mockery of the sacrifices of the men of our own country, of Russia, America, France and elsewhere, if the present divisions between us in Germany and elsewhere were to enable the very evils we sought to destroy once more to bedevil the world.
