gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with unusual trepidation that I rise to address the House for the first time, because most of my working life has been spent in dealing with air matters, or, as some of my more candid and rude friends would say, ""with my head in the clouds."" It is because, during the last two or three years, I have had to do a personal survey of the fuel, coal and oil facilities available in the Commonwealth and Western Europe that I do not hesitate to take part   in this debate. I believe that there is not only a national but an international danger in this debate continuing to take place in an atmosphere of bitterness. In making my first speech I cannot be controversial, but because of the speech which which has just been made by the right hon. Member for Derby, South (Mr. P. Noel-Baker) I decided to make my first speech in the House today, though I should much have preferred to make it upon a quite different subject. No Member of previous Parliaments in the House—either upon the Opposition or the Government benches—can escape responsibility for the present position of the coal industry. The coal mines have been nationalised, and no one desires to put the clock back, but as the very existence of our commercial future depends upon what we do now, it is of the utmost importance for us to realise that no criticism of the Government or Ministries by the Opposition can wipe out the fact that the Coal Board has been created, and that in creating it we have brought into existence the biggest monopoly in the British Empire. We have created a monopoly which is impersonal in its effect upon the mind, the heart and the work of the miner. I am very familiar (with the miner—his home, his thoughts, his mind and his life—particularly the Welsh and the Yorkshire miner. I do not imagine that there is very much difference in the Scottish miner, except that, after hearing some of the speeches of Scottish Members, I imagine that he would be a little more obstreperous and difficult if he were so minded. One vital fact which has so far been left out of the picture is that the rising price of coal and its shortage will affect every hearth and every home; the life, health and happiness of everybody, in every cottage and croft in Scotland and every prefab around London. It is therefore the solemn duty of all hon. Members to approach this problem from a completely non-party standpoint. We have to make this organisation work, and we cannot do so if, for reasons best known to certain people outside this House, bitterness and hatred are kept alive for purposes inimical to the industry. On page 74, the Fleck Report recommends:  That the functional Heads at each level of the organisation should be of better calibre and higher status than their functional counterparts at the next level below. This seniority should be openly acknowledged and reflected in remuneration. The senior man's views in his own field should normally be accepted at the next level below him. The very fact that that recommendation was made by a Committee appointed within the Coal Board—and made by men of international reputation—shows exactly what has been happening, and the need of a speech such as I am trying to make. I have made a careful study of the Coal Board during the last year, and the first thing that sftruck me was that it is doing far too much that it should not do. Its activities should certainly be telescoped and confined to the production of coal and the humanisation of the industry. I am quite sure that certain right hon. Gentlemen opposite would agree with me that a miner is much happier when he can ""have it out"" on the spot with somebody in authority who knows what he is about than with the completely impersonal organisation which exists today. I am sure that no one will deny the truth of that. I now come to the very important point that the gas and electricity industries must unquestionably be given greater freedom. The monopoly of the Coal Board must be diminished. I want to make clear a very important cleavage of opinion which I have with the right hon. Member for Derby, South. I believe the policy of opencast coal mining to be one of absolute failure and despair. When we are losing so much of our beloved islands through more building, more roads and more development of every kind, I wonder that this House does not rise up in anger and do something about the desecration of what little is left, when we have within the British Commonwealth sources of coal and fuel beyond the imagination of mankind. I want to pay a tribute to a great statesman whose policy of Empire economic unity, viewed against the background of history, will have the plaudits of generations to come. I refer to Lord Beaverbrook. As I told the House at the beginning of these few remarks of mine, during the last few years I have studied fuel resources in the Commonwealth and Empire. I would ask hon. and right hon.   Members to consider how great they are; and then to remember the debt we owe to the Scandinavian countries, and to reflect that we are now stopping coal exports to those countries. Do hon. Members not think that we shall pay for that in all kinds of ways? Do they think that that is a one-edged weapon? The real answer to the problem of the coal industry is pyschological, spiritual; and to find that answer and to apply the remedy is desperately important to us and our families—to the families of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, I would remind them. Not only that, it is of importance to the future of this country. I have a personal reason amongst other reasons for my interest in the Commonwealth beyond this country, those lands whose fuel resources, as I said, I have been studying, for the lady I had the happiness and privilege to marry was born in South Africa. I could not then but be inspired, as doubtless we all were, when in Africa, in 1947, our gracious Queen, then a young and very beautiful girl, dedicated her life and her unbounded talents to the service of all her peoples everywhere. We can learn a lesson from that dedication. In the mining industry, in the whole of our industrial life, what only can save the situation—nothing else will—is the same kind of personal dedication. Every time I pass under the Churchill Arch to come into this Chamber I remember the desperate days at the beginning of the war, the retreat from Dunkirk and the Battle of Britain. There are many of us in this House who know very well that then and afterwards there was in our mines, in our factories, in our shipyards, more production in one hour than there is in six hours in these days. The reason for that was that in those days everyone felt that there was something so wonderful about this island which we were struggling to defend that it called for the best in each and every one of us and the best that each and every one of us could give to the common cause. That spirit is the answer to our problems now, whatever happens anywhere. There are one or two matters of detail to which I would draw my right hon. Friend's attention. I believe that one ought to tell the House if one has a  personal interest in a commodity being debated. I am, in an advisory capacity, interested in a commodity called in the United States of America ""Densite"" or pet-coke, by means of which they are able to conquer the problem of smog and air pollution in the industrial cities and towns of the United States. I hope that that commodity will be utilised to save the health of the people of this country, and to save also a large amount of money. I should like also to see far greater use made by the coal and coke companies of this country of liquid methane, vast quantities of which are used now in Canada to cheapen the price of coke. I thank the House for its indulgence. A debate like this is listened to or read of by the miners all over the country, and not only by them but by every housewife, every householder, everyone who, thinking of the coming winter, is wondering whether he or she will have enough of the coal he or she is entitled to. In the last resort—I repeat—the solution to the problems of this industry depends on one thing, whether the enmities and hatreds of the past, the bitterness felt in the valleys, can now be allayed and replaced by, and forgotten in, a common, united effort by all concerned.
