gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Some of the remarks that I propose to make on this Amendment may seem irrelevant but were it not for the fact that I have the opportunity now, at last, to make my maiden speech, were it not for the fact that I realise that in such circumstances Members are particularly kind, and were it also not for the fact—and this I say particularly to the Minister—that I believe the point I am going to raise is a very important one I should not have stood up this evening. Before I proceed might I congratulate the Minister on his excellent Bill and speech and also the Parliamentary Secretary on his equally excellent effort this afternoon? I would venture to say one controversial word—although I should not do so—in reply to the last speaker. I happen to be a member of the London County Council and it may be that some of my colleagues on that body are anxious to participate in the Debate this evening but will not manage to do so. Therefore, I want to say that it was not with any pleasure that the London County Council gave up their great system of hospital ser-   vice. We have a great pride in that service, but we have an enormous desire for a comprehensive health system throughout this country. We feel that the sacrifice that we have made is in the interest of the nation, and we are proud and indeed glad to do its We only say to the regional boards following us, that we hope they will have as much interest and pride in that service as we ourselves have always felt. The aspect of this Bill to which I wish to refer this evening is the provision of a comprehensive dental service. The Minister himself said that the state of the teeth of the nation was disgraceful. If those were not his actual words they were to that effect. The Minister is correct. The hon. Member for Abingdon (Sir R. Glyn) referred to the enormous difficulties which people in country districts had in securing dentures. He also talked about the necessity of providing openings for ex-Service men in new trades, and mentioned the possibility of such men becoming dental mechanics. I hope that point will be borne in mind by the Minister of Labour. I would also say a word about the inspection of teeth. To begin with, in my view it is essential that everybody's mouth should be inspected at least every six months. Schoolchildren in particular, nay, children before school age, should have the same inspection. It ought to be possible to conserve the teeth of young children so completely that they do not lose any until the time comes for them to get their new set. I have some figures here. In Cambridgeshire, in 1938, it was found possible in the case of schoolchildren to conserve 13.6 teeth, to each one that was extracted. At the Eastman dental clinic in London, which children from 16 schools attend, they conserved 19.7 teeth to every one extracted. However the overall figure for the country is three teeth preserved for one extracted. We have details which show us that when children just under school-leaving age are examined for entry into school, they have an average of 4.8 teeth decayed. With regard to the rest of the population I have not any figures here. I can only say I reached the age of 16 before anybody ever looked at my teeth. Then they looked at them before the Dentists Act of 1921 was passed and they lugged out any that had little bits of black on them, so that I lost a number of teeth which should never have gone. My re-  maining teeth were subsequently preserved and have lasted me until this day. What is the possibility of satisfying the demand that is going to be infinitely multiplied as soon as people find that they have a right to dental treatment and dentures without having to pay for them? The demand will be increased many times. I hope that not only will the demand increase naturally, but that every step will be taken to encourage that demand, in the interests of the health of the people of this country. If I know my people, and I think I do, I tell this House quite frankly that nothing but the best that they can get will satisfy them in the years to come. We can see it only too plainly in the demand for the standard of housing. I assure the House that dental treatment will be no exception. What are the chances of meeting the demand? The Minister himself has said—and this is what is agitating me—that during the coming years priorities will have to be given to school children, and expectant mothers and so on. These are very important categories, and must be seen to first, but the rest of the population is entitled to treatment, too, and it is going to be a serious thing, which I hope this Government will not tolerate, if the people in this country have to go without proper attention to their teeth and the comfort and health which ensue from that attention. The Teviot Committee in its report said that the number of recruits to the dental profession was somewhere under 300, and that it would have to be raised to 900 if, in 20 years' time, we were to get the 20,000 dentists needed for the comprehensive dental service. We know what building is, and we know the difficulty of the training of teachers in any subject at all. We realise the difficulty there will be in increasing the number of dendists. I cannot say that I know the remedy, but I can say that we ought to pay very careful attention indeed to the reservation to the report of the Teviot Committee by Major-General Helliwell, a distinguished dental surgeon and officer of the London County Council. He said: Perhaps one of the most surprising customs pertaining to the dental profession is the combination and practise, by the same person, of dental surgery and preventive dentistry with the supply of artificial teeth. On the one hand, we have that side of dentistry in which the one great aim of the dental surgeon should be the preservation of the natural teeth and their associated tissues, to prevent, so far as possible, the need for   artificial dentures, but, on the other hand, it is in the provision of artificial dentures that he makes his greatest profit. In no other branch of medicine does such a practice exist, and in my view, unless there is a radical change, the progress to the best type of dentistry will continue to be severely hampered. Members will remember that the Dentists Act of 1921—although a very necessary reform—gave dentists the monopoly not only of the care of the mouth, which required medical qualifications, but also gave them a monopoly in the making of the impressions necessary before dentures are fitted. The dentist not only gives advice on the care of the teeth and conserves them; he also pulls them out, and he has the greatest incentive to pull them out because, if he can fit dentures, he makes more profit by doing so than by keeping the teeth in the patient's mouth. That is the position, and it must cause us seriously to think. A dentist's training is long and expensive, and it is not right that his skill and knowledge should be wasted in this time of national stress. If he can have help in his work—and Major-General Helliwell and I contend that he ought—then his skill and knowledge might be made to go much further. I ask the Minister to take the necessary steps to see that that help is given to the dentist, with proper safeguards of course, and that the best possible use is made of the dentist's skill and knowledge. There are ancillary workers, who can clean and polish teeth and teach oral hygiene, often described as dental hygienists. The Teviot Committee advocates the training of such workers to assist dentists, and I hope we shall push ahead with this. A training period of two years is suggested, but they were used in the Royal Air Force after a very short period of training—a few months—and were quite satisfactory. They are used in the United States. In New Zealand they go much further—school medical services are run by dental nurses. Each nurse has the care of about 450 children. She stops teeth, gives instruction in oral hygiene, and, in addition, extracts teeth. I am not saying that we should go as far as that. I think that probably the filling of teeth should be the dentist's work, although I do not quite know where his work begins and stops. Then there are dental mechanics who are capable of taking better impressions than some of  the dentists themselves, because of their long years of practice. The dental mechanic needs to see the patient in order to fix his smiling or lugubrious countenance, but under the present law, he cannot do it himself, unless the patient goes to the dentist, so wasting the time of both men. What I am suggesting today is the possibility of making the dentist's skill go as far as possible. I also want to call attention again to the minority Report of the Teviot Committee, and ask the Minister to see whether he cannot do more than we have been led to expect from what has been said in the past.
