gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make some small contribution to this Debate I crave the kindly indulgence of this Committee which, I understand, is always extended to those who have the honour to address it for the very first time. The main reason for my desire to participate in this Debate is my deep concern that individual enterprise is not just enabled, but very actively encouraged, to play a full part in our economic recovery. People do not yet realise that financial wizardry and all-embracing plans alone cannot restore prosperity. The governing factor, as I see it, is responsible human effort at all levels of our industrial life. To my mind, the only way in which industry can give its greatest service is by the encouragement of private enterprise. I am a product of private enterprise and I respectfully suggest, therefore, that I have some slight knowledge of the subject. I feel certain that the Committee will appreciate my deep conviction that this country must rely on individual enterprise to overcome many of our present difficulties. Happily, I believe, the pioneering spirit which built our British trade and our Commonwealth is still with us. It only needs fair conditions under which to operate. I would remind the Committee that even if the Government carried out their full programme of nationalisation, and if the big industrial units in the private sector still remained, two-thirds of our total production and manufacture would still come from firms employing 250 employees or less. I would suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that this section of our industrial economy should receive his very special attention and also his encouragement and his assistance. If individual enterprise were given the incentive and help which I shall be suggesting in a few moments we could go a long way towards extricating ourselves from our present difficulties and we should not need so much help from abroad. I am somewhat encouraged to press home my suggestions because lately the Government have repeatedly turned to the private industrial sector for co-operation and for help in their difficulties; but I want to see this carried very much further. I hope the Government will seriously consider the advice shortly to be given to them by industries regarding the relaxation and operation of controls. I urge the Government to be bold and to throw over every control whose retention cannot be proved to the satisfaction of the industries concernd to be in the public interest. So far, I have spoken only of production, but selling is equally important. No doubt the Government were right to set export targets as long as they were sensible and reasonable, but the Government far too slowly made trade agreements with other countries which would enable us to sell in those countries. Evidence of this was to be seen when the targets were set, for at that time there were some hundred countries to which we were either unable to export at all or to which we could export only with the very greatest difficulty. My view is that the Government function should end with the fixing of trade agreements and the arranging of efficient consular services. My own experience is that a successful export trade is entirely a personal matter, bound round good faith and confidence between busi-   ness houses in this country and business houses abroad. No such spirit can possibly be created or maintained by the dictates of any Government Department. I have always maintained that the present Government overstepped its rightful function of administration by entering into industry via nationalisation. By so doing they placed themselves in a position to use their very great powers—and, indeed, their financial resources—to compete with individual enterprise, instead of supporting and assisting it. Another unfair disadvantage to the private traders of today is undoubtedly the privileged taxation position which is granted to the Co-operative Societies. Now that our export trade is meeting competition and we must produce at the very lowest prices it is imperative that we cease the inefficient, costly bulk buying method by civil servants who are completely unfitted, both by training and by outlook, in many respects for these tasks. I maintain that industrial experts who know the work should be given the task. If so, our country would benefit materially, both by lower prices and by better terms. At the present time much of our competitive bargaining is lost. The Government must realise that such buying is often closely related to selling. The closer the contact the more successful our trading is likely to be, and the Government must also realise that industry cannot carry on its functions at second or third hand in both directions and with a Government Department interposed at both ends of what must be a two way street. I do not want anybody to misunderstand me as advocating a complete divorcement between industry and the Government. Lately, particularly over the last few years, there has been a need for a growing co-operation. However, cooperation is a very different matter indeed from control and nationalisation. I would appeal to the Government to go further in taking industry into their confidence and in seeking their help, for such would not be abused nor the assistance withheld. Specially do I want help and incentives for the smaller industrial units. I want the widest distribution of interests and responsibilities. I believe that the preservation of the number of smaller units would result in far better industrial relationships between managements and workers. Mere size and efficiency to my  mind are not synonymous. I hope that this Government will wisely encourage the smaller manufacturers and smaller traders of this country, for soon they will realise that nationalisation as such, will destroy the spirit both of human endeavour and of enterprise. I notice regretfully that in this Budget there is no encouragement whatsoever to private enterprise in the way of tax reduction or other incentives. I suggest that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer really wishes to sponsor the development of individual enterprise with all its resulting benefits to our community and to our country, he might consider the concession of half the standard rate of Income Tax on retained profits in small businesses up to £2,500 per annum. For whatever sacrifices there would be in revenue, such incentive would undoubtedly bring great results both in new products and in new developments upon which, I would remind the Committee, we must mainly rely to hold our own in world trade in future. Finally, I wish that similar encouragement to that which I have desired to be given to individual enterprise at home should be extended equally to those with a spirit of enterprise in the development of our great Commonwealth. The idea of Government schemes in our colonial development are in themselves very good and very sound, but to my mind they can never replace the efforts and the achievements of the individual who, should he wish to share in the development of our great Empire and Commonwealth, should be given in all ways by the Government both the opportunity and the necessary assistance. Unless we preserve and en courage a spirit of pioneering enterprise by the individual both here and abroad, I fear the outlook for our Commonwealth is very black indeed. If, however, we enable any who can to recover a spirit of adventure and enterprise which made this, great country great, we can rapidly resume our rightful place in the commerce and in the counsels of the world. Before I sit down may I express to the Committee my grateful thanks for their kind consideration in that trying moment of a new Member's life in which he makes his first attempt to place certain of his views before what I have heard described as the world's most critical audience.
