gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel sure that the House will offer me its especial indulgence for the first maiden speech in this new Session of Parliament. The Gower constituency, which I have the honour and privilege to represent, has been associated in this House with another name for 22 years. I refer, of course, to the name of Ifor Davies. On 3 November 1959, Dr. Davies made his maiden speech. I should like to pay tribute to his great services to the House, to its debates and discussions. As he was, I am proud to be a Welsh-speaking Welshman. I shall endeavour to the best of my ability to follow Dr. Davies's great regard for parliamentary democracy and his love and affection for the traditions of this, the Mother of Parliaments. The Gower constituency is well known to hon. Members for its natural beauty and its fascinating seascapes. But the majority of people of Gower do not live on the peninsula. They live in the valleys and on the interfluves of the Loughor, the Tawe and the Amman, where coal mining, tin plate and nickel remain key industries. It is vital to the preservation of my constituents' dignity that the Government spare no effort to infuse expansion into those industries. Behind the mask of Gower's outstanding natural beauty lies the worst variety of unemployment—chronic and stubborn. In July 1979 in the county of West Glamorgan, in which lies the constituency of Gower, one in five of those registered as unemployed had been on the dole for more than a year. Three years later, the figure is two in five. Over the same period, the percentage of unemployed 18 and 19-year-olds on the dole for more than a year has risen from 7·4 per cent. to 25 per cent. On my visits to plants in my constituency, the overwhelming impression gained is the low morale of the work force. It views the future with trepidation. That leads not to greater effort to improve productivity, but to the opposite. It is a vicious circle of despondency combined with a temptation to indulge in higher absenteeism with its attendant negative feedback on productivity. The key to future prosperity in Britain, if Gower is an accurate microcosm, is the adoption of measures to inspire confidence and hope in the work force. I see little in the Gracious Speech that encourages me to go back to my constituents and give them that confidence. Without that confidence, every movement of the exchange rate and every movement in the structure of interest rates, in whichever direction and in whatever fascinating esoteric combination, will be of little significance. It is absurd that we see around us so many desperate tasks that cry out for action while the human resources necessary for those tasks languish in underpaid and involuntary misery. The system fails to channel the wasting resources into the satisfying of desperate needs. The tourists to Gower do not see, and do not want to see, the rotting windows, the damp bedrooms, the badly fitting doors and the cracked pavements of our older council house estates. The tourists do not see the raw human sewage pouring into the kitchens and living rooms of my constituents in Clydach after periods of heavy rainfall. The tourists do not see old-age pensioners  struggling to walk the private, unadopted, rutted, water-filled and pot-holed roads that serve their houses in the villages of Cwmllynfell and Gwaun-Cae-Gurwen. These problems that affect the communities of my constituency are with my people today. The tourist does not see them but they are there. I am sure that the item in the Gracious Speech dealing with British Telecom will send ripples of anxiety through the rural areas of my constituency. Before Ifor Davies, David Rhys Grenfell represented Gower in this House for 37 years. It is my firm belief that these words spoken by Grenfell in 1935 point a new way forward for the Britain of today. He said: It is by co-operation that individuals attain larger freedom and security. The form of service needs to be essentially changed. The individual who now is forced to seek his livelihood at the expense of his neighbour will gladly join him in the greater enterprise of making a living for the whole community. I thank the House for its indulgence.
