gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with some trepidation that I rise to make my maiden speech following the very powerful speeches that we have heard in the debate on both sides of the argument. The past few days have been notable in that we have debated the great moral issues of abortion and capital punishment. As far as many right hon. and hon. Members are concerned, this Bill also involves important moral considerations, and the question whether it eventually becomes law should not, in my opinion, depend on bare statistics alone. Many other countries already have legislation making the wearing of seat belts compulsory, although at least one, Switzerland, has subsequently gone back   to the voluntary wearing of seat belts. The fact that Britain has so far resisted compulsion and that so many people are against it is perhaps a reflection of the strong feeling of independenec and the desire for choice that are characteristic of the British people. Independence of thought, represented, for instance, in the strength of nonconformist religion, is strongly evident in my constituency of Brighouse and Spenborough. Although surrounded by several industrial cities, such as Leeds and Bradford, the area has retained a sense of local identity. Even those born only a few miles away have been surprised to find themselves regarded as "" corners-in "", for many years in some cases. Within the constituency there are significant and notable differences between the three towns of Brighouse, Heckmondwike and Cleckheaton, and the many other towns and villages within it. The area is rich in local history and is notable for having given birth to the Luddite uprising. More recently, the decline of traditional industries such as textiles has given rise to new activities, very many of them based on small businesses. Adaptability and innovation have enabled many firms to survive when other similar ones in other areas have failed. Economic recession at home has required companies to discover new export markets, a factor which will prove to be of great long-term benefit when economic recovery comes. The former local authorities were small but well run. People could go to the local town hall and could get things done. Local decisions were taken locally and a strong sense of community and self-help persisted. I am afraid that however hard our councillors and officers of the new authorities of Calderdale and Kirklees may work, they will have great difficulty in persuading the people that local government reorganisation was a change for the better. Among the many notable representatives of the area in the past was Sir John Simon, still well remembered as the Member for Spen Valley. My immediate predecessor, Colin Jackson, suffered from ill health during his latter years in the House, but by then he had already built a solid reputation as a good constituency Mem  ber and one who, furthermore, had an outstanding grasp of foreign affairs, particularly those of the Middle East. Although he and I often disagreed on issues before his decision to retire, I am glad to say that personal attacks were notably absent on both sides. I would like to think that that is how the public prefer to see political argument conducted. Hon. Members on both sides of the House will, I know, wish Colin Jackson well in future. The people of these islands are overwhelming law-abiding, but that law depends completely on one thing—consent. Nearly everybody agrees that there should be laws to deter those so minded from physically assaulting one. Few people would argue that one should not be punished for evading taxes, even though no one likes paying them. Nearly everyone even agrees that there should be penalties for dropping litter in the streets. But this situation manifestly does not apply to the compulsory wearing of seat belts. As the Department of Transport acknowledged in papers distributed at a road safety conference in June 1978, a recent survey of a sample of drivers showed a split of about three to two against compulsion. This information has been published in a report by the transport and road research laboratory. Furthermore, although it is difficult to prove, I am convinced, from my own experience, that the intensity of feeling exhibited by those who disagree with compulsion is much greater than that of those favouring legislation, whose mood could perhaps best be described as passive acceptance. What worries me, in common with my hon. Friend the Member for Putney (Mr. Mellor), is not so much the fact that a law on seat belts would be brought into disrepute but that the existence of a law which was not accepted by a significant proportion of drivers would tend to bring all our laws into disrepute. Those who favour this Bill, or Bills like it, have tried to overcome the argument that such a law would be unenforceable by saying that the police would not go to great lengths to enforce it. For instance, they would not stop drivers specifically for committing this offence but would enforce the law only when they stopped drivers for another reason.   Can one really justify a law which is defended by saying that it will not normally be enforced? I do not think that one can. I found rather extraordinary the interjection by the hon. Member for Isle of Ely (Mr. Freud), who said that the question of enforcing the law against moving drivers would not come into question because when the driver was stopped he would no longer be moving. The same thing could, of course, be said about any offence, for example, speeding. But I do not think that the policeman in question would take very much notice of that argument. The criminal law should be a sanction against actions that are generally regarded as wrong. It should not be employed by Governments, or anyone else for that matter, to try to persuade people to do things which are supposed to be good for them. That is the most important reason why I shall be voting against the Bill. I have already stated that there is an enforcement problem. The hon. Member for Glasgow, Kelvingrove (Mr. Carmichael) spoke about the attitude of the police. Very many of the police who, I know, recognise the paramount importance of good relations with the public, are against legislation which would make their job more difficult. It would be ironic if the Bill were to go through at a time when my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport is considering legislation to create more fixed penalty offences, very largely in the interest of better relations between the police and the public. I fully accept that the wearing of a seat belt is something which can protect one from serious injury in many accidents, but the fact that I happen to think that is irrelevant. Others think differently or find seat belt wearing so restrictive that they would prefer to accept the small risk of being in an accident. So be it. A new report by the transport and road research laboratory, published only two days ago, states that there is a slight but significant risk of malfunction in some designs of inertia belts. In the words of the report:  Such failures could add to the severity of the injury for a very small minority of those wearers involved in severe crashes. The AA favours legislation, the RAC opposes it. It is a matter on which there  is disagreement, and everyone should have the right to make up his own mind without the law intervening. It is said that accidents impose heavy costs on the community in terms of hospital beds, disability payments and so forth, and therefore the State, it is argued, has a right to prevent people from doing things which cause those costs to be imposed. Acceptance of that argument would mean that we should instantly ban dangerous sports such as mountaineering, and we should certainly stop people smoking. Governments rightly require cigarette manufacturers to warn the public about the danger to health and to provide information about the tar content. Our present approach to the wearing of seat belts is roughly similar. Car manufacturers are obliged to fit belts in order to give all front seat occupants the option of wearing them. Information about the consequences of not wearing belts is made available, and I agree that the publicity campaign should be intensified. But that is as far as we should go. The hon. Member for South Ayrshire (Mr. Foulkes) and my hon. Friend the Member for Grantham (Mr. Hogg) referred to precedents, particularly in the work place. I agree that in the work place there are enormous pressures on employees not to wear protective footwear and headwear, but now that the wearing of seat belts in motor cars is generally acceptable, there are not the same pressures as exist in the work place. I recognise the great human cost of road accidents, but if we argue that this is a matter of the ends justifying the means, we are surely wrong. If the immediate preservation of life were the only consideration to be taken into account, we would never have fought the Second World War, in which countless numbers of people died. If preservation of life were the only consideration, we could scrap all expenditure on defence immediately. I respect those who hold contrary views to mine, just as I hope they will respect my views on this matter. The great issues on which we have voted in recent days have in some cases divided colleagues and strained friendships. In many ways, I should like to support those who believe that legislation could reduce the large number of casualties each year.   One is in something of a dilemma in this matter. However, because I believe in the importance of the law and in the right of an individual in possession of the facts to make up his own mind, and not be told by the Government what is good for him, I must go into the No Lobby today.
