gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is my first speech in this House, and I can assure you, Sir, that I am in real need of the encouragement and kindness which I know I shall receive from all hon. Members. We are considering the ratification of a document which is regarded by millions among the United Nations as a written constitution of world government. We should, therefore, be frank and admit that, as a nation, we do not understand written constitutions and do not like them. This side of our political character is a disadvantage when estimating what it means to other nations to ratify this Charter. To other nations, the Charter is far more than a treaty, far more than an international agreement. To many of them it is a real written constitution of world government, and a written constitution to such countries as the United States of America is something almost sacred. Such veneration is as foreign to us as worship of the sun, but in our irreverence on this matter, there are great advantages which the United Nations may derive. The right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) referred to the important question of peaceful change. We in this House, most of us Socialists, sitting in a Royal Palace, are the inheritors of a system of government which has changed in accordance with the social and economic forces of the times. We are all part of a procession, mostly orderly, of men and women who have been coming here to govern for 700 years. I will not go into details regarding the knights of the shires and the burgesses, the Roundheads and Cavaliers, but if I over-simplify our political history and omit such things as the Civil War, that omission only illustrates that there can be no orderly progress in government unless there is flexibility in the instrument of government. It is a real tragedy that of all the Parliaments and Congresses which will be debating the ratification of this Charter, it is only in this House that written law is not and has never been the master but is, and has always been, the servant. For instance,   it is only here that it is realised that it is we, the Commons, who really represent the people, and that it is we, and not Magna Charta or some other law, who really guarantee their liberties. There are many hon. and learned Members here, and it is true that throughout our history we have been blessed with more than our fair share of lawyers. Nevertheless, we have always rejected legalism and we, even the greenest of us, are, toy tradition, impressed with the fact that our Constitution has adapted itself and will adapt itself to meet the economic and social forces—in other words, the politics—of the times. I believe, therefore, that it is the political example, experience, and leadership of this House which the United Nations require, if this written constitution is to work. I challenge the assumption found to-day in many parts of the country that, because we are now a relatively small country with a relatively small population, because we can no longer build two battleships for everyone else's one, our days of greatness are past. I believe that with our Socialist Government and with our example of political leadership and experience we have a very great contribution to make to the working of this Charter. Like many other hon. Members, I have, during this war, seen something of the United Nations at work. I did not deal with the heads of Governments, I did not deal with military commanders of high rank, but as a junior officer, I worked with junior officers of many nationalities, and I found that if an aim was stated and agreed, a means to achieve that aim was agreed upon too. But if we sat round merely interpreting some written directive, too often we lost sight of the ultimate aim in disagreements on construction. If the Governments of the world regard this written constitution as they regard their own written constitutions, there is a grave danger that the representatives of the nations will waste their time in legal argument. I say ""waste their time"" because we all know that the problems of this world are not problems of law, but problems of politics, in the widest sense of the word. Therefore, in supporting the ratification of the Charter, I say, let us accept the Charter, but let us always remember and point out that it is only the first step on a long, long march, a  march on which the world's politicians are welcomed with enthusiasm, but on which the world's lawyers—and I am a lawyer—are welcomed merely with courtesy.
