gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I must crave the indulgence of the Committee on this, the first occasion on which I have had the honour of addressing it. I suppose that all new Members must feel on coming here rather like the new boy at a boarding school: rather wondering what the position will be and very apprehensive as to whether their own views about themselves will be shared by the older boys, particularly in the upper VIth. Of course, as Parliamentary democracy   means government by discussion and government by discussion implies that there must be considerable differences of opinion, it seems a very good thing that there is a tradition in the House that a new Member making his maiden speech should seek not to be too controversial lest he should outwear the patience of those listening to him, for whose indulgence he is asking. I should hardly have ventured to speak in this Debate at all, because it is rather difficult for a Conservative to speak non-controversially about the affairs of a nationalised industry, but I believe I am the only Member on this side of the Committee who has actually been a railway employee and who has had experience as a railway employee since nationalisation. For 19 years I was an assistant solicitor in the legal department of the Great Western Railway and for one year with British Railways. The legal department comes into contact with all grades and I have experience of all parts of the line from London to Chester and Chester to Penzance and have dealt with all departments and all grades from the chief regional officer down to the fifth grade clerks and carriage cleaners. So I have had some opportunities of seeing how the railway service works from below. As I am trying to be non-controversial, I take it that there is no dispute in this Committee that we all want a good and efficient transport service. That means that to be efficient it must be a transport service that pays, because that seems to be implied in efficiency. The railways were built by man and by man they must be run. Railway losses are not an act of God, nor are they an inevitable accident. If there are losses—and there are losses at present—I take it that our problem here is to try to think of ways and means of avoiding those losses and to make practical suggestions as to how they can be overcome and what is best to be done to get out of that situation. I do not intend to deal with many of the proposals which could be made, as some of them are beyond the scope of this Debate, since they involve changes in legislation. Some hon. Members have alluded to a number of them which we cannot develop here. They referred to our policy at the General Election. Of course,  we did not propose to de-nationalise the railways, but we had other proposals which would have involved alterations in legislation. Nor can we pursue the line of argument dealing with the ""square deal"" before the war, because that also involved getting rid of many obsolete Acts which are still hanging round the neck of the railways like the Albatross round the neck of the Ancient Mariner, ancient provisions imposed by Parliament in its wisdom in the days when the railways were a monopoly, but which are no longer valid. I refer, for instance, to Section 68 of the Railway Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, relating to railway fencing, which has been a source of trouble to railway managers and a profitable source of income to railway solicitors for the last 100 years. All these are outside the scope of this Debate. Then there are such questions as the very complicated matter of railway rates and charges which has been dealt with and will be dealt with by other hon. Members. I wish to concentrate on one point which is very often overlooked, and which seems to me to have an important bearing on this matter. It seems to be forgotten that in this island of ours, when institutions have been in existence for a long time they tend to develop into organisms rather than organisations. In other words they develop a spirit of their own, become a corporate unit, develop a language of their own and a spirit of their own apart from their own individual members. The railways of this country were constructed 100 years ago. Certainly the railway which I had the honour to serve had been in existence during the whole 100 years under the same name. It developed a language of its own, as anyone who has worked at Paddington even for a short time will know. For example. the not very attractive space between the hotel and the end of the platform is known as ""The Lawn."" I suppose because grass once grew there. Many of the trains are known to the staff by special names which do not appear in time tables. It is still, or was quite recently, common to describe one train as the ""Zulu,"" a name which referred to a railway engine long since defunct. Another was described as ""The Owl."" I never discovered why, but I think because an   owl was discovered in the tender on one occasion. The most famous of all G.W.R. trains, the ""Cornish Riviera"" is never referred to by that name but always as ""The Limited."" When expressions and a language of its own, grow up in any organisation like that, it ceases to be an organisation and becomes an organism, it has a corporate unity, a spirit of its own, a tradition with which it is unfortunate to interfere. One of the main criticisms which I make of the railway service under nationalisation is that there were too many changes for change's sake. I may say that I resigned from the service one year after nationalisation. My reason was that as a prospective Conservative candidate I saw no reason to alter my previous opinion that nationalisation was not in the best interests of the staff or the travelling public, and I thought that it was not proper for someone expressing those views in public also to be a junior officer in the railway service. I resigned for that reason. Whether that was right or wrong is a matter for controversy which I will not pursue. As I say, after nationalisation, all sorts of things were done which seemed to me to be quite unnecessary. Even the colours were altered for no particular reason, and very curious colours were substituted. I believe that the official designation of one set of colours put on the rolling stock was ""plum and spilled milk,"" which sounded like a dirty tablecloth, and very soon began to look like a dirty tablecloth, too, and ultimately I am glad to say was discontinued. All these unnecessary changes had a disturbing effect on the staff. They rather spoiled the corporate unity, and it must be remembered, so far as the Great Western was concerned, that it was a family railway. A large proportion of the staff are the sons and grandsons of Great Western men who have been brought up with the railway. They did not like changes which seemed to them unnecessary, and which spoiled the spirit of the railway which had continued for so long. The crowning folly of all was that promotion ceased to be by region. I know from my own experience that many men in the railway service have often remained in it in the past, although drawing lower salaries than they could have earned elsewhere, solely for sentimental reasons. To start altering all the names, giving new  names to old jobs, new colours, and so on, destroyed prestige, and the value of that connection was gone. In the past the War Office has often been criticised for too much red tape, but even then they never contemplated abolishing the Grenadier Guards because they ceased to be armed with grenades. Yet that sort of thing was constantly going on in the nationalised railway service. There seemed to be no appreciation of the value of tradition and too much attention was being given to paper work and altering things for the sake of altering them. I have always defined Conservatism as a balanced attitude of mind which seeks to apply the lessons of past experience to the problems of the present. I do not expect hon. Members opposite to accept that definition; I do not even expect my hon. Friends on this side of the Committee to accept it; but I suggest that as a business maxim it is of some value—that one should apply to the problems of today the experience of the past. Surely the experience of organisations everywhere is that there is great value in tradition, and we in this Committee should realise that more than anyone else. One of my criticisms of the alterations in the nationalised railway service is that that factor has been entirely disregarded. In conclusion, I urge that we pay far more attention to tradition in the railway service, that we should not make any further changes merely for the sake of making changes, and that we should seek to close the gap—I am not referring to the dollar gap but to the equally dangerous gap which unfortunately exists between the British Transport Commission and the Railway Executive and the even greater gap which exists between the Railway Executive and the regions. I think that the efficiency of the lines would be greatly improved if a great deal more authority were given to the man on the spot. In the railway service there is at all grades great responsibility resting on the man on the spot, and that must always be so. That extends down to grades which are not high in the service—the signalman in his lonely box on a branch line, a ganger walking his length. In many other grades too there are people who are taking great responsibility and on whose skill and ingenuity the con-   tinuance of the railway depends. Even the goods porter, whom I have seen in some of those conditions to which the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North (Mr. Edward Davies) has referred—conditions which I agree are not good, in dark and places—has great responsibility, for he can cause quite a lot of damage by carelessness when handling goods unless he appreciates the value of his work and has a pride in his job. He, too, has to act with responsibility, a responsibility which will be fostered by getting back to the unit system and by giving a pride in the job to the local unit. Finally, I suggest that a real attempt be made to carry into effect the words which appear in the first annual report of the British Transport Commission, to give the maximum devolution of authority in the regions to the regional and divisional officers in regard to executive action.
