gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome this opportunity to make my maiden speech, although I am very conscious that, after the excellent speeches of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, Hillsborough (Mr. Flannery) and the hon. Member for Brent, North (Dr. Boyson), it will be no small achievement to match their eloquence in the House today. Like the hon. Member for Hazel Grove (Dr. Winstanley), who I am delighted to see is in a mood helpful to the Government—which mood I hope will extend to the Lobby on Monday evening—I represent a new constituency, Aldridge-Brownhills, in Staffordshire. Just as I was confused as to where Hazel Grove might be, others may be confused as to where my constiuency might be. There is little need for me to invite hon. Members to visit my constituency. Most of them have unwittingly visited it already as they travel slowly up the A5, which runs from one end of my con-  stituency, Streetly, to the other end, Brownhills. This is a new constituency on the edge of the West Midland conurbation. It was formerly a mining area, which was worked in the past by my family—although not exclusively of course. I welcome the settlement of the miners' dispute. I am sure that many people in my constituency who still work in the mining industry will welcome the settlement of that dispute so rapidly by the present Government. But this is a constituency which shows all the characteristics of English society. It contains a remarkable cross-section, from the Birmingham businessman living at Streetly, on the edge of Sutton Park, right through to Brownhills, with its legacy of mining dereliction, and with areas of green belt and new housing in between. To get a cross-section of opinion in English society is fairly easy merely by travelling from one end of the constituency to the other. In this new constituency there will be a widespread welcome for the measures proposed in the Gracious Speech. Indeed. I am fortunate in the constituency to follow two Members who represented part of it, Mr. William Wells, who represented the Walsall, North part, and Sir Henry d'Avigdor-Goldsmid, who served the Walsall, South part of it. Between them they served the constituency in the House for over 50 years. Having heard the Gracious Speech I may, with a little luck and with the good will of the electorate, possibly be able to emulate their achievement. The Gracious Speech is a very attractive one, particularly for me, concerned as I have been with the education industry for most of my life. I am pleased to see the proposals for the extension of nursery education. Many of those who have been involved in the playgroup movement—alas, in my case, not as a child but as a playgroup chairman—recognise that although the playgroup movement is doing excellent work, there are tremendous limitations to what can be done. There are many areas in which playgroup education is absolutely vital, but that is where no provision is available. There are other areas in my constituency where people are very anxious to send their children to a playschool and yet   have no opportunity because the playschools which exist are already hopelessly over-subscribed. Education experts have shown us that the early years in a child's educational life are the most important years. A child who is educationally deprived at the age of three is likely to remain educationally deprived at the age of 11—an age which, I am glad to see, is to become far less important in educational life—and educationally deprived at 18, and so on, throughout the rest of his career. I welcome the introduction of nursery education as a high priority. It will be of great benefit to many who have lacked these opportunities in my constituency and to many people with backgrounds like mine, working-class backgrounds, who have lost out time and again and whose parents have been unable to purchase educational privilege and social status which can be obtained only by hunting after the direct grant schools and public schools. I hope that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State will pledge himself to the early disappearance of bath of those instruments of social and educational inequality. But, more than that, there are different problems. Education always needs more money. Apart from the need to expand nursery education, there is a need to expand the provision in primary and junior schools. The class size of 40 is an entirely wrong one. We should try to reduce this size to 30 children per class, and not to encapsulate children in a classroom situation but to use the educational facilities which are becoming increasingly available. We must use these flexibly, in terms of group teaching, audio-visual aids, and so on. As a school manager I know only too well that too often there are fine school buildings which are too small to permit the efficient use of the building for team teaching and so on. This is hampering education. We need more schools. We need larger schools for the junior schools. We need smaller classes. These are an absolute educational necessity. In addition, I welcome the pledge to get rid of the 11-plus once and for all. There is scarcely in this country an educational expert who will justify the 11-plus any longer. It is little more than an intelligence test, for which children  can be trained, so that it measures their degree of assiduity, and, perhaps, a little skill on the part of their parents in training their children to pass the test, rather than any measure of present or future potential in the educational world. Its early abolition is surely a necessity. I welcome the disappearance of the consummate piece of political dishonesty of the maintenance within one catchment area of schools which are called comprehensive schools and those which are called grammar schools, so that some children are creamed off into grammar schools and the residue are sent to what are called comprehensive schools but are in reality secondary modern schools. That is appalling and ought to have been abolished long ago. Finally, I turn to higher education, in which I spent most of my life. In the last couple of years we have had the feeling that a twilight of barbarism was spreading over higher education. Universities have been faced with reductions in the number of staff. In my former department alone we have 9,000 applicants for 50 student places. Increasingly, people were unable to get the education to which they were entitled. Even in the Open University, which I have had the privilege to serve for the last three years, the situation was that more and more students were applying for fewer and fewer places. We were rapidly approaching a situation in which we turned away far more students each year than we were able to accept. Money has been cut. Television facilities have been limited. If we regard television as an effective education medium—and, as a television performer with some accidental skill, I know that it is an important medium—we must make more time available by means of a fourth television channel. I do not argue that the whole of that channel should be devoted to educational purposes. Little more time can be made available for education programmes on BBC2, even in the early hours of the morning and the late hours of the evening. Further opportunities for educational broadcasting must be made available. Therefore, we need more money in higher education, too, and in further education there is a whole constituency of people who lost out in the first game of educational   roulette and who still lack opportunities for educational improvement. The Open University has made a remarkable start. But there are many people still on the shop floor and to them we must give educational opportunities. We must interest them in eduction, possibly for the first time. All of these things need to be done. They clearly will not be done easily or without cost. But education in this country offers a tremendous opportunity not only for social equality but for the personal enrichment of every person in our community. I hope that my right hon. Friend will feel able to develop the educational industry to the full for the benefit not only, I hope, of some of the hon. Members of this House who may be attracted to further education, possibly from the Open University, or elsewhere, but of all members of the community.
