gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, I crave the indulgence of the House for my maiden speech. I was sad to hear the Leader of the Opposition make fun of the new Members and their enthusiasm in waving their Order Papers because they approved of the Budget. It is because we new Members have arived in Parliament that the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer have the opportunity of a new beginning for this country. This Budget laid the foundations for that today. I start by paying tribute to the man I succeeded, Kenneth Lomas, who served the House of Commons and the constituency of Huddersfield, West, in West Yorkshire, for 15 years. He commanded the respect of all political parties in my constituency for the sympathetic way he understood the problems of that constituency and for the way he dealt with those problems. I am pleased to follow him, even though he sat on the then Government Benches. He did a thoroughly good job. I am sad to say that he has not enjoyed the best of health for a number of years. He has just had his fourth operation. It will interest the House to know that unfortunately his wife, Helen, was recently taken seriously ill. I am sure, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that you and Members of the House will wish to join me in sending our good wishes for better   health and for their continued happiness to both of them. I should like, if I may, being the first Conservative Member of Parliament for 100 years to serve Huddersfield, West, to briefly to describe my constituency. It is a very busy, bustling town lying, like many West Yorkshire towns, within a valley close to the Pennines and close to the Derbyshire Peaks. It serves the world extremely well through its textile industries. These have been established in Huddersfield for generations. If any Member is wearing a suit of Huddersfield cloth, he is travelling first-class, because the woollen worsted materials of Huddersfield are recognised to be the finest materials in the world. The textile industry—not only the weavers but also the yarn spinners and dyers, and all the small businesses which trade with the giants—is the largest employer in the Huddersfield area. We also have many engineering giants as well, which produce valves for power stations, gear boxes, environmental plants and drilling equipment. The area has a wealth of engineering, and Huddersfield, as I am sure the hon. Member for Huddersfield, East (Mr. Sheerman) will agree, is a town that can take off again very rapidly because we now have the benefit of the M62 and Ml motorways. They provide us with very good communication links, and I am sure that Huddersfield will once more be one of the most important towns in Yorkshire. I am honoured to be one of the two Members of Parliament to serve the town. The small businesses play a very important part within the constituency, as they do in most other constituencies. They are very big employers and we rely greatly on them. However, Huddersfield enjoys fame in other spheres. We have the Huddersfield Choral Society, known throughout the world, and we produced Anita Lonsborough, the Olympic gold medallist, as well as Derek Ibbotson, the mile world record holder. We also won the first division of the Football League for three consecutive years. I was not born at the time but we did it. It would be unfair if I did not say that the right hon. Member for Huyton (Sir H. Wilson) went to school in Huddersfield, so I will be fair and say it. There were certain omissions from the Budget which disturbed me. I am sure they also disturbed the ratepayers of the United Kingdom and the ratepayers of Huddersfield in particular. In the 1970 general election campaign the Conservative Party campaigned very forcefully for the abolition of the domestic rate. We felt, quite rightly, that it was an unjust and unfair rate to levy on our people. It is unjust because there are elderly people, perhaps widowed, living in accommodation which may have a larger roof than that of the house across the road. Perhaps such people have full central heating and have to pay a very big share towards local government finances. Yet across the road we have the slightly smaller house with perhaps six wage earners living there and only one of them making any contribution towards local government. The present system cannot be fair and it cannot be just. Already we are hearing rumblings about the water rates that are being levied. There are instances of seven people using water and paying less than one dear old lady living on her own who uses only one-seventh of the water that they use. That cannot be a fair system, yet nothing has been said about it in the Budget Statement today. I fully understand why we have been unwilling to raise the question, since we are committed to reduce taxation and, naturally, if we collect local revenue in any other way it must be done either through a local tax or through direct or indirect taxation of some kind. Nevertheless, it remains a burden, and I imagine that local councillors will probably face a big problem when this subject comes up again because they fear that if rates are collected nationally they will not be able to call the tune locally. I believe, however, that local councillors who hold that belief are wrong. For example, many right hon. and hon. Members have experience of parish councils precepting the district council, and the system works very well. The parish still makes up its mind on where it will spend the money and what its priorities shall be. I do not, therefore, feel that we need worry too much about that. I think that local councils will still be able to say how the money will be spent and what the priorities should be. It remains my firm conviction, however, that what we must move towards is a just and fair system. We owe this to the ratepayers. We in the Conservative Party in particular owe it to the ratepayers because we have encouraged them to believe that it is something for which we stand. As I say, I understand why there has been no mention of it in the Budget today, and I do not wish to detain the House on this occasion, but hon. Members can be assured that they will hear from me again on the issue. Although there has been no reference to it today, it is an issue on which I have campaigned and shall continue to campaign because I regard the present system as totally unjust and unfair. I thank right hon. and hon. Members for their attention.
