gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I ask for the customary indulgence extended to maiden speakers. I understand that this is a non-contentious Measure, so I trust I may thereby be saved from falling into the pitfalls of controversy to which reference has been made. I believe it is a characteristic of non-controversial Measures, particularly those affecting local government, that they are attacked line by line and Clause by Clause with complete impartiality and abandon on all sides. We all know that rating and valuation is seldom a burning topic of discussion even in a local election. I have been all the more impressed, therefore, by the large number of my constituents in   Norwich who, in the recent Election campaign, told me of their considerable anxieties about the likely effects of revaluation. I have no doubt that some of them too readily assume that their rate burden will rise proportionately with their assessment. I therefore welcome the provisions in Clause 1 of the Bill which, I think, will go a considerable way to save needless worry and avoid many unnecessary appeals. Ratepayers will be given an opportunity to take account of any reduction in the rate in the £ before deciding what to do, but it seems that if they are still dissatisfied their right of appeal is fully preserved in this Bill. It is, however, a matter of some criticism that whereas the local rating authority has the right of inspection of the new valuation list at the end of December, the individual ratepayer does not have the same opportunity afforded him until April. It is felt, quite seriously in some quarters, that that gives the authority an unfair advantage in preparing to meet any possible appeal and. in consequence, the rating authority should be allowed to have only the global figure it is necessary for it to have, in order to determine the rate poundage. It is suggested that this discrepancy in treatment must be so because the local authority has many administrative motions to go through. I can understand that there must be some delay in sending out the rate demand notes if the local authority has not got the figure of the individual assessments by the middle of March. There would be a delay of some weeks unless overtime were worked or additional staff were put on. That is the measure of the problem, but I hope that the rights of individual ratepayers, or any subjects of the Crown, will never be subordinated to arguments based solely on considerations of administrative expediency. On the other hand, in this particular circumstance the ratepayer is no worse off—and in many ways is better off because of the simplified procedure—than he was when the local authority was also the rating authority and so, automatically, was in the position of gaining the information in advance. It seems to me that the right of appeal is fairly adequately protected under the Bill as it stands, but of course it is also necessary to have ground for appeal. I cannot forecast—I do not think anyone  can—what the effects of the new valuation lists will be on the incidence of the rate burden as between one class of property and another. No doubt it will vary considerably between one area and another, but I think there is already reason to believe that the fears expressed to me by shopkeepers and small traders in Norwich and elsewhere are not unfounded. Their basis of assessment has been left untouched by post-war legislation and they may well be heavily hit. They have welcomed the undertaking of the Government to review the system when the effect of the new revaluation can be measured, but what has caused a certain amount of difficulty is the gradual realisation that it would be impossible to make any substantive changes in the law between the time when the new valuation list is available and the time when it comes into force. In these circumstances I hope it may be thought that there is a case for some interim relief which might be limited—as in the case of the assessment of houses on the basis of 1939 values—to this first valuation list. A possible simple remedy would be to increase the statutory deductions from gross to rateable value. I hope that, if the Government have not already considered this suggestion, it is one of the matters which will be considered in Committee on the lines suggested by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Hertfordshire, East (Mr. Walker-Smith) when the Bill was before the House in April. The case for some interim action is strengthened by the fact that a considerable period must inevitably elapse before it will be possible to assess the full effects of revaluation, particularly as over half the assessments will be 17 years out of date when they come into force. Of course it will be asked, why single out shops for special consideration? This has already been afforded to dwelling-houses; and the Bill, I am glad to say, recognises that many charities are in danger, under the law as it stands, of being faced with a rate burden which it is quite beyond their capacity to meet. The cost of rates to many industries, and perhaps to many shops, will never be more than a fraction of their total costs, but to many others it represents a severe charge on a profit which is often equivalent to little more than a very modest wage. I am sure that no hon.   Member on either side of the House wants to see the little man driven out of business, but it is a real danger at the present time, and there is already more than a grain of truth in the saying that man is born free but is everywhere in chain stores. Because this Bill is to be regarded only as an interim Measure, I welcome the proposal in Clause 6 to give a discretionary power to local authorities to remit or reduce the rate burden upon premises occupied for charitable purposes. If it were to be a permanent feature of the rating law, I would share a good deal of the concern which has been expressed already. In theory it may be undesirable to give such a discretionary power in relation to local taxation, but it seems to me to be an eminently practical proposition in the immediate circumstances. My own view about this matter is similar to that of the hon. Member for Leeds, West (Mr. C. Pannell)—that local authorities must be trusted to do the right thing, otherwise there is no point in having local government. I would express the hope, however, that one of the Amendments which the Government have in mind for that Clause is to extend during the interim period this discretionary power to other non-profit-making societies, such as sports and athletic clubs, which are not, technically speaking, charities. The alternative to the policy in Clause 6 is to clarify and extend the existing law—particularly the Scientific Societies Act, 1843—which, though it may be overdue, is probably more than can be achieved within the scope of a modest Measure of this kind. Now, with the leave of the House, I would like to say a few words on the subject of the Exchequer equalisation grant which, although not referred to in this Bill, is obviously clearly bound up with it, because it is the effect of this revaluation on the distribution of the Exchequer equalisation grant which is likely to cause the most marked shift in the incidence of the true rate burden as between one area and another. I know, as the House will know, that that formula is to be reviewed under the provisions of Section 14 of the Local Government Act, 1948, in the year when the new lists are introduced. I wish that this  process could be speeded up and something done at once, because I hope there are not many people who still believe that when we have uniformity of valuation—so far as that is anything more than a phrase—this grant will operate in an equitable fashion. I do not believe that rateable values per head of population can ever be accepted as a measurement of either the resources or the needs of a local authority. I will give a brief example of what I mean. In 1954–55 in my own constituency of Norwich, the rate in the £ was 25s. 2d., the rates per head of population were £10 14s. 3d. and the Exchequer equalisation grant was nil. In another county borough of comparable size, which to avoid controversy I will call town A, the rate in the £ was 20s., the rates per head of population were £5 1s. 5d. and the Exchequer equalisation grant was equivalent to a 13s. 7d. rate. It is factors like that which ought to lead the Government to treat the review of this grant as a matter of urgency and to have regard to factors such as rates per head of population. I cannot understand why it should be assumed that industrial workers, postmen and policemen in Norwich should be better able to pay rates to the tune of £10 14s. 3d. than their opposite numbers in town A, who pay only £5 1s. 5d. I agree with the view expressed that the review of the Education main grant formula is a matter of even greater urgency. At present many towns enjoy a double advantage when they get the Exchequer equalisation grant; other places, like Norwich, enjoy a double disadvantage. The real point in connection with the debate on this Bill, however, is that whatever happens the rise in rateable values which is bound to result from the new revaluation will involve many education authorities in a serious loss of grant. I believe, therefore, that some temporary expedient is needed, whether in this Bill or otherwise, to obviate the most serious effects. As matters now stand, owing to the reductions in the Exchequer equalisation grant and the Education main grant, which must inevitably follow the increase in rateable values, the reduction in rate poundage which many people are now anticipating may be considerably   less than they expected. If that is so, it would obviate the policy set out in Clause 1. Finally, I express the hope that this Bill is only the forerunner of a comprehensive Measure to overhaul the entire financial structure of local government, which must be the condition precedent to any effective plan of local government reorganisation. May I also express the hope that the Government will not in every case be content to wait upon the achievement of agreement between the various local authority associations? I have been a member of a borough council, I am a member of a county council, and I now represent a great city which is a county borough, so I trust that I shall not be thought to be particularly prejudiced for or against any one type of authority. Yet I do not believe that compromise is the answer to all our local government problems. I believe that the responsibility lies upon the Government to give a clear lead and to warn the local authorities, in the famous words of Canning, that those who resist improvement because it is innovation may find themselves faced with innovation which is not improvement.
