gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
First, I should like to offer my apologies to the House as I will have to rush off after making my speech. My right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary is visiting my constituency today and I should like to join him in some important meetings. I should like to congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Dewsbury (Mr. Whitfield) on raising this subject today. It is a taxing enough experience to draft a maiden speech as a short contribution to a debate let alone having to write a speech moving the main motion. I admire my hon. Friend's courage. With so many maiden speeches being made at this time, one hopes that one can come up with that telling phrase or flash of wit that will make one's maiden speech stand out. Despite sitting up until 5 am for two nights this week —with a little help from the Whips—trying to think of that phrase, I am afraid that I shall have to content myself with commenting on the privilege that it is to make this speech as the new Member for Bradford, North. It is indeed welcome to see so many familiar faces, on both the Conservative Benches and the Opposition Benches, of hon. Members who have been around the political and community circles in Yorkshire and Humberside for a number of years. I hope that it is a good sign for the future that we will be able to have all-party co-operation in pushing the case for Yorkshire and Humberside. I should like at this stage to pay tribute to the previous Member for Bradford, North, Mr. Ben Ford, who had the honour to represent the constituency for 19 years. He was a dedicated parliamentarian, as was evidenced by his work for the IPU, among other groups. That should make Opposition Members all the more ashamed that Mr. Ford was forced to stand as an independent Labour candidate and that the Labour party found it easier to adopt someone with considerably more extreme views as the official Labour candidate. That is thoroughly to their discredit. I know from the remarks I have heard that many Opposition Members felt uneasy and ashamed about that position. I   admired Ben Ford for his stand within the Labour party which he served for so long. It cannot have been an easy decision. I know that many friends on both sides of the House will wish him well. While Bradford, North is probably best known to those who are familiar with it for the television programme ""Emmerdale Farm"", which is filmed in a more rural part of the constituency, it is part of a dynamic city which has a proud industrial heritage and is renowned for its forward thinking. Perhaps the most telling measure of the city's ingenuity is the fact that it recently received an award as the fastest growing tourist resort in this country, an accolade that is somewhat remarkable and probably unbelievable to many Members, especially those who come from south of Watford. Two years ago, it would have been a source of much humour if someone had prophesied that Bradford would be the fastest growing tourist resort, but now, having had 15,000 visitors last year, it is indeed a reality. Hon. Members could do much worse in the coming long recess than to spend a few days taking advantage of one of Bradford's admirable tourist breaks and exploring the delights of our industrial heritage and the countryside around. I am particularly pleased to be able to use my maiden speech to bring to the attention of the House the economic scene in Yorkshire and Humberside and to consider the effect there of regional assistance. Although Yorkshire and Humberside, particularly west Yorkshire and perhaps even more particularly the city of Bradford, has had historically a high concentration of traditional manufacturing industry, it has not been slow to adapt to change and certainly during the first half of the 1970s the region's gross domestic product per head grew faster than the national rate. However, that has not been sustained and since 1977 diversification into newer and lighter manufacturing areas has not been enough to compensate for the decline of sectors such as engineering, which has suffered a 20 per cent. drop in employment, and textiles where nearly 30 per cent. of the jobs have been lost between 1977 and 1981. As a result, the unemployment level for the region has changed from being consistently below the national average prior to mid-1979 to being consistently above the national average in the period since. However, this average masks wide discrepancies in the region where unemployment varies from 6 per cent. in some of the more prosperous parts to more than 20 per cent. in the more depressed areas. The dramatic loss of 173,000 jobs in manufacturing in the seven years between 1975 and 1982 has never provoked the gigantic headlines that have accompanied closures in major areas such as Consett, Corby and Merseyside and the north-east of England. Perhaps if we had suffered these major closures and the sudden social consequencies of them we would have received the attention and benefits from Government sources that those areas have attracted. Instead, the region has undoubtedly lost out in attracting its fair share of Government assistance. Between 1975 and 1982, Yorkshire and Humberside contained an average of 16 per cent. of the unemployment in the assisted areas. However, it has received only 7 per cent. of regional assistance payments This means that during that period the region received only £125 per head  in grant for the working population compared with a national figure of £365 per head—the equivalent of a total loss in aid to our region of £200 million. Having pointed out the inequality of treatment that Yorkshire and Humberside has suffered, and while this is a plea for greater recognition of our case, it is not a plea for the return to the position before the operation of the Industry Act 1981. It is certainly not a plea for the scale of massive public intervention advocated by the hon. Member for Rotherham, (Mr. Crowther). Until the hon. Gentleman made that remark I had high hopes that he had at last learned the basic tenets of Conservative economic policy. The hon. Gentleman said that for industry to succeed it had to sell its goods and inflation had to be kept down. We need to recognise that regional assistance and the way that it has been provided since the war is completely inappropriate to today's needs. Its aim has been to bolster the manufacturing sector in areas where that sector is most concentrated. However, the net result has been only to transfer employment from one area, often by no means a prosperous one, to another area, with little or no tangible benefit to the national economy. Indeed, in some cases where a branch of a large company has taken advantage of regional assistance, that branch has often been the first to shed labour or to close altogether when times have become tough. As the Yorkshire and Humberside CBI commented in 1980 at the time of the Industry Act, There is little evidence that in fact the assistance offered is a major determining factor in relocation but more a benefit which will be considered at the margin, all else being equal. It has been calculated that in the north-east, about which we have had many representations from hon. Members today, there are 92 separate agencies all devoting public resources to bringing jobs to the region, agencies often acting in competition with each other. It is absurd that this wasteful use of limited resources should continue and I hope that this duplication of effort will be considered by the Department of Trade and Industry when formulating its review of regional policy. Perhaps the most important benefit of assisted area status in the past 10 years has been in attracting funds from the European Community. Since we joined the EC, Yorkshire and Humberside has benefited to the tune of £1,373 million in grants and loans. The benefits are too long to list, but perhaps the most tangible and important in terms of the future long-term economic development of the region is the £650,000 that has been given towards the Leeds-Bradford airport extension. However, much of the area is no longer eligible for EC grants, with the loss of assisted area status. I strongly urge the Department to look at the ""black spot"" theory as advocated by the EC commissioner responsible for social policy. It would allow funds to be diverted to contained and narrowly defined areas of economic activity, be they geographically of sectorally defined. It would take us away from the blanket bombing approach which still plagues the application of aid, despite the vast improvement brought about by the 1980 Act. Each project could then be considered on its merits, regardless of location, which would remove many anomalies, for example of finding a high unemployment area in an otherwise relatively prosperous region. An added measure of flexibility would be to broaden the criteria for aid. The city of Bradford is a prime example. It is now looking to move away from its   dependence on the manufacturing sector to other areas such as services, leisure and tourism. The development of these activities, as the city has successfully proved, brings income and employment to the area. While it is not always easy to quantify the benefits, certainly in terms of employment, of developing a theatre complex or of having a national photographic museum sited in the city, they undoubtedly bring added prosperity to the city. Interest in developing these commercial areas can be seen from the fact that it is this sector which attracted the largest number of development inquiries received by the Yorkshire and Humberside development association last year. It was due only to the initiative and persistence of Bradford's councillors and their officers that they were able to attract money from the EC for the museum project. I hope that steps will be taken to make it considerably easier to attract Government and EC funding for the development of projects in the sectors I have mentioned. This is central to the point that regional assistance is not just financial; it is the display of confidence and the development of a successful image in an otherwise depressed area. For the city of Bradford, if the Government were to announce that the proposed new regional offices of the Departments of Environment and Transport were to be situated in Bradford, rather than in Leeds, where one is at present, or in Harrogate, where the other is, that would be of immeasurable long-term benefit to the city of Bradford, unmatchable by almost any injection of straight cash. Regional aid is most effective in attracting foreign investment and assisting the creation of new businesses. Yorkshire and Humberside has an excellent record on both of those counts. Its higher-than-average number of small firms gives great hope for the future. We have seen how the Government can be flexible in allocating funds to attract major investment projects from overseas, albeit that they have not always been great successes. This policy should continue and complement the work of the leading development agencies of each region. What must be avoided is the spectacle of councillors or other amateurs squandering ratepayers' money by jumping on planes and arriving in foreign countries intent on grabbing some prized project for their own corner. I hope that the current review of regional assistance will lead to the correction of the severe imbalance in regional prosperity. However, it will stand a better chance of arriving at that result by producing a more flexible and cost-efficient package of aid. I look forward to the day when political commentators are not able to express surprise at the election of so many Conservative Members from the north, considering the relatively depressed state of the region. Then I will be happy that we shall have achieved once and for all the demise of the concept of two nations, both geographically and economically.
