gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech, it is appropriate, not just out of respect for the traditions of the House but in recognition of the real achievements of my predecessor, that I should start with a tribute to Maurice Edelman. Maurice Edelman was a man of distinction in many avenues of life. He was a man of letters—an author whose novels and other works reflected that same graceful urbanity that characterised his elegance of dress and manner. He came to the House in 1945 and, though never holding office, he featured widely and prominently in many Back-Bench activities. He worked assiduously, through the Anglo-French Society, of which he became President, to promote that elusive but essential goal of better relations with France. His was an egregious career distinguished by intellectual and cultural merit as well as by social and political concern. Throughout that career he was, as the phrase has it, ""a good constituency MP for Coventry, North-West"", whose interests he served for 30 years with attentive care and which it is now my privilege to represent. Coventry is, above all, an industrial city. We have there many of the most famous household names in British industry. We have Dunlop, GEC, Courtaulds and British Leyland, too, of which we are proud. We have Jaguar and Triumph, and we are proud of them. We also have Chrysler, and we shall do our best to see that it succeeds. We realise, perhaps more than anybody else, that the health of our city is directly related to the health of its manufacturing industries. Coventry, historically and probably internationally, is known as a centre of unparalleled engineering skills. It is regarded as a powerhouse behind Britain's industrial effort. However, it is sad to tell the House today that that power is running rather low and that those skills are growing rather rusty. However, we  believe that the measures that the Government have put in hand for backing British Leyland, Alfred Herbert's and Chrysler—industries essential to the health of Coventry and of Britain—will succeed. With our unemployment level at 6·8 per cent., we in Coventry fear that, just as the recessions which we are experiencing have become increasingly frequent and severe, so the creeping malaise of industrial uncompetitiveness is becoming increasingly more pervasive and malignant. It is now striking at the very heart of our traditional engineering industries in the Midlands. I should like to point out to my right hon. and hon. Friends in the Government who have already dealt with and those who may in future have to deal with industrial policy that there seems to be some fashionable idea doing the rounds that the traditional engineering industries are no longer growth sectors; and that we can close them down or safely leave them to their own slow decline in the benign hope that they will be replaced by some trendy new growth technologies. Nothing could be further from reality, as has been shown by the successive quixotic ventures of former Governments, particularly Conservative Governments, into the outer reaches of technology. These have proved extremely painful and expensive to this country. Our traditional engineering sectors may not have much glamour, Mr. Deputy Speaker, but we are proud of our machine shops and assembly halls. We think it a worthy occupation to work in the oil and the swarf. We need to restore to these industries and to our manufacturing sector as a whole not only greater efficiency but a more prominent and esteemed position in our scale of cultural and social values. And I would wish, with others, to be a champion of our manufacturing industries. In the light of this situation, one of the most encouraging aspects of the Budget was the unequivocal priority which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave to our manufacturing industries. If previous Chancellors of all Governments had not just said that but had realised it in practice, we might not today face the grave crisis which confronts us. But it will not be enough to will the end; we shall also have to will the means   with all that that may involve in terms of domestic unpopularity when it comes to according to manufacturing industry the level of real resources which it requires and in terms of international unpopularity when it comes to putting Britain's interests first. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer is regularly bombarded with advice on what needs to be done or does not need to be done. He will be glad to know that I do not intend to add to his bellyful this week. I hope, too, that he will be pleased to know that what I wish to talk about does not require anything from the Exchequer. For, with the indulgence of the House, I should like to say a few words about the subject of industrial democracy, a matter of which I have some personal and very practical experience and which, therefore, might be a suitable topic for this occasion. From time to time various cure-alls are invoked for our industrial problems. Industrial democracy is not that. Nor is it some ready-made commodity which can be bought off the shelf. It is something which has to be worked at over a period and built up by a joint effort of management and unions. It will take some time. But, unless we make a start, we shall not succeed industrially, however good are the diagnostic and prescriptive formulae and equations of our economic forecasters, whether they be the Cambridge School's or any other school's. Industry is not about that. Industry is about people—people working together inventively and constructively to design, to make and to sell things successfully at home and in world markets. Unfortunately, we have not seen enough of that constructive co-operation in our industries. And it seems to me that as a society we have to re-learn the benefit of working together. As the Government have seen that the nation can sensibly and effectively run only in co-operation with the unions at national level, even if that involves some diminution of the presumed powers of government, so our management must learn that our industries and factories can be successfully run only with the active collaboration of the trade unions, with the collaboration of  shop stewards, even if that, too, involves some reduction and sacrifice of jealously guarded management prerogatives. That in essential part is what industrial democracy is about. My own experience was derived from working directly in industry as Chief Executive of Jaguar Cars and as an adviser to the Meriden Co-operative, which I played a modest part in establishing, and that experience inclines me to make the following remarks of a practical nature. Firstly, we should accept that all consultative and participative arrangements should be introduced via and on the basis of the existing structure of trade union representation in a place of work where that representation already exists. Secondly, both sides—unions and management, but especially management, as by the very nature of things so much of the initiative lies in its court—must enter into schemes for industrial democracy not just with good faith, vital thought that is, but with realism. Thirdly, a particular responsibility lies with management. If we are to succeed there must be the genuine conviction that working people have the right to be consulted about decisions that directly and often vitally affect their daily lives. Management must be prepared to disclose to employees to the maximum extent possible the facts about the business. And it must be prepared to modify plans and to change decisions in the light of consultation. Fourthly, I turn to the trade unions. Our friends in the unions must be prepared, if an effective system of industrial democracy is to work, to take an increasing measure of responsibility for and a common interest in the success of the enterprise in which they work. That will involve progressively—I emphasis the adverb—an acceptance of responsibility for the achievement of better manning, more productive manning levels and an accepted structure of grading and differentials. If these four points cannot be presumed we shall not have a good chance of success. Nothing that I have said should be interpreted in any way as implying that there are not conflicts of interest in industry.   Of course there are conflicts. But what we must not overlook—and it has never been overlooked by hon. Members on this side of the House—is that there is also a common interest and a national interest. What we can hope to achieve by a genuine system of industrial democracy is to promote a framework within which me conflicts can be resolved without so much self-destruction and to promote a framework and an atmosphere in which they can be resolved with an enhanced common interest and an enhanced national interest. I well remember that when we embarked on our programme of consultation and disclosure at Jaguars, which among other things involved discussing all aspects of our five-year plan with the trade union representatives, there was a great deal of anxiety and scepticism on both sides. Perhaps this was especially so among my management colleagues and this was understandable enough. In fact, we had a good response. The record we were achieving of strike-free production and strike-free pay packets is testimony to the success of the programme, and it underlines the fact that if a scheme of participation and disclosure is entered into it must be entered with sincerity and conviction. If that is done, it can be made to work. Why that chapter at Jaguar came to what we thought was a premature end is a different story. At Meriden the boot is on the other foot. The former pickets are now the legally constituted board of Synova Motors, which is probably better known both inside and outside the House as the Meriden Motor-cycle Co-operative. As in most post-revolutionary situations, we have had our problems. We have fallen out among ourselves. We have had problems of integrating new recruits with those who did the picketing during the long, hard 18 months it took to bring about the Meriden Co-operative. We have also had problems—perhaps in some ways they have been the most difficult—in reconciling the idealisms and in some ways the very concept of the co-operative with the exigencies of managerial and organisational competence, without which no industrial activity can flourish. I think I can say that those  concerned realise that the job is a lot more difficult now than they thought when the chains were slammed on the gates. But I am also pleased to tell the House that, one year on, the Co-operative is doing progressively better. It was its birthday only a week ago. I hope that we can show a trend of improving performance on the basis of which we look to the Government for continued support and backing of what we regard as a most valuable experiment. Hon. Members will have noticed that I have spoken much more about changing attitudes, changing motivations and human relationships than about legal or institutional innovations, important as those can be in developing the framework that we require. I end by making one simple plea. When we are considering new organisations and new laws let us try to avoid the rather pathetic plagiarism of copying what other countries are doing. Let us remember that they have their problems for which they evolved their solutions. The Germans have their Mitbestimmung and their banking system, the French have their planification and participation, the Italians have their IRI and the Japanese have their MITI. Fine. I have no objection and I am sure that those organisations are good for those countries. But let us have the confidence and vision to consider our own problems, which are British problems; problems that exist in our culture and society, and in our industry. They exist on the shop floor, in the design offices and in the boardrooms of our industries. If we spent half the time examining our own problems that we spend considering what takes place in other countries, and if we came up with practical solutions for solving our own problems, I can assure the House that we should surprise ourselves how quickly we could succeed.
