gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I shall be grateful to receive the traditional indulgence which this House gives to a maiden speaker, the more so since I am following two such very distinguished Members, my right hon. Friend the Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Coventry, East (Mr. Crossman). I shall try not to abuse the privilege, so that my speech is not described as more of a hussy than a maiden. My predecessor, Mr. Ben Whitaker, although here only for four years, made a distinctive mark both as a back bencher and as a Minister. He followed a tradition set by a very distinguished predecessor of mine, Mr. Henry Brooke, who contributed so much to the public   life of this country, and who is still doing so in another place. He served the constituency well, and I can only hope I can emulate the services which those two gentlemen rendered to Hampstead. As is customary, I should perhaps start by saying something about the constituency. I want to remove one well-held misconception. Many people, from reading the newspapers and listening to the wireless, believe that Hampstead has residing within its borders more Members of this House, and, indeed, of another place, than almost any other constituency in the British Isles. Beware of falling into the trap of including in Hampstead the area in which the Leader of the Opposition used to live, which is Hampstead Garden Suburb. I am sure that even in her absence I can say that my right hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) will be relieved to hear that we in Hampstead have no territorial ambition to acquire Hampstead Garden Suburb from the Borough of Barnet. One would be on much safer ground if one associated with my constituency the old Bull and Bush and Hampstead Heath and the traditional Bank Holiday fairs. On those occasions, the whole of London and his family rub shoulders. This is the true cosmopolitan Hampstead, a community of various races and religions, of people who live side by side in harmony, as they have done throughout this century, and Hampstead has certainly seen over the years, particularly in the 'thirties, a vast influx of refugees, particularly from Nazi Germany, who have become part of the community. The electorate is now well over 71,000—and it was not due to be altered by the Boundary Commission. It contains a substantial number of elderly people, many of whom do not, for a variety of reasons, qualify for the regular State pension. I do not propose to be controversial in this speech, but I hope hon. Members will forgive me for recalling that this subject cropped up at many of the election meetings which I held, and I was shocked to hear hecklers bellow out such remarks as, ""They are getting National Assistance. What are you worrying about?"" Apart from the fact that the  hecklers had forgotten that National Assistance was no longer called that, I am afraid I have little time for that sort of remark. Although it is true that the Supplementary Benefits Commission will make payments, this matter of help, whatever hon. Members opopsite may say about these being payments as of right, offend many people's sense of pride, understandable if illogical. These people want to feel that they are getting a pension by law as of right and not, as I have heard it described, as some form of charity or hand-out. I am, therefore, delighted at this speedy translation of pledge into performance. I confess I found it somewhat surprising to hear hon. Members say that pledges, if they happen to be small, are not really matters of great moment. I believe the country will judge this Administration by the fact that they are willing to carry out a pledge which they gave. May I make one appeal to the Secretary of State and to the Under-Secretary of State who will reply to the debate? I think it is vital that we find these people as quickly as possible, and I heard my right hon. Friend say there would be some form of publicity campaign. I would urge him as strongly as I can personally to vet the leaflets and advertisements so that they appear in common sense English and not the sort of officialese used in recent years, particularly by the Inland Revenue, and which may not be so difficult for us or accountants to understand but is virtually impossible for many people to understand, particularly the over-80s. If I am not out of order I would say that I hope that very early steps will be taken, either by the Chancellor or by the Secretary of State, to assist those other pensioners in that curious bracket whose pension suffers if they work. I look forward to an early easing of the earnings rule. I now turn to another aspect of the Bill, that of the severely disabled. I warmly welcome this part of the Bill, as one who has served in local government for over 20 years. I have seen so many people in homes whose families would have wished—contrary, if I may say so, with great deference, to hon. Gentlemen on the other side—to have kept those people in their own homes, in   their own surroundings, if they could have afforded attendance help. It is not my view that these old people or the disabled necessarily want to go into the magnificent new homes run by the State, voluntary associations or local government. These people would in many cases feel happier to be in their own homes, and the longer they can remain, with help, outside the residential care of the welfare authorities the better it will be, a point made by the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mrs. Kellett) with great practical and recent experience of this matter. I saw some of those problems of the disabled some years ago as a member of a local disablement advisory committee. I have not had such long service as the hon. Member for St. Pancras, North (Mr. A. W. Stallard), but he and I have both seen the problems which are not recognised sufficiently by the general public. This fact will certainly be brought home more clearly to me because my wife has just been elected as founder-chairman of the local rheumatism and arthritic committee and certainly members of her committee and association and friends will be helped and comforted by this Bill. I hope that I have been sufficiently brief so far, because I have been warned by older and more experienced Members about being as brief as I can. I want to end by expressing as firmly as I can my belief that we have a chance to make the 1970s the dynamic decade, with better opportunities for people to make more of their lives and to make Britain great again. But, and it is a very important but, at the same time I hope we will all remember those who through no fault of their own cannot keep up with the rest, who through no fault of theirs cannot manage on their own. The people included in this Bill are but a few of the categories who will need help. If we can understand their needs and desires we will be able to do all that most hon. Members want to do, certainly on this side of the House, within our framework of efficiency and dynamism, but without diminishing our essential sympathy, compassion and understanding.
