gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise from ranks that were a few hours ago both packed and serried with my hon. Friends to address this House for the first time. I am very grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me this opportunity so early in the life of this new Parliament. It is customary for new Members to say something about their constituencies, and the case for doing this is all the greater when both the Member and the constituency itself are brand new. The constituency of which I have the honour to be the first Member of Parliament is Chertsey and Walton, and I therefore hope the House will allow me for a few moments to describe what the constituency comprises. Chertsey is a name well known in early English history, the Abbey having been founded in the year 666. The Chertsey Urban District Council area which is now within my new constituency was part of the old constituency of Chertsey which was served so illustriously for so many years by Sir Lionel Heald and more recently by my hon. Friend now the Member for Surrey, North-West (Mr. Grylls). I can reassure Northern Members that Walton is not a part of Liverpool but none other than Walton-on-Thames—a fine town with an excellent football team, Walton and Hersham, which won the FA Amateur Cup at Wembley last April. At the centre of the constituency lies the well-known town of Weybridge. The   Walton and Weybridge Urban District Council area, which is now within my constituency, was formerly within the Esher constituency and was served with distinction for many years by Sir William Robson Brown, and more recently by my hon. Friend the Member for the new constituency of Esher (Mr. Mather). Most of the area, topographically speaking, is very low-lying and is honeycombed with rivers. In addition to the Thames, it was the rivers Mole. Wey and Bourne which overflowed so disastrously in September 1968. If I may remind the House, on that occasion 2,500 acres were inundated and 10,000 houses were badly affected at an approximate cost of £1½ million. Since that time a special study has been prepared designed to prevent a recurrence of such flooding, and Government approval is awaited for this scheme to proceed. In the last three weeks we have been given a red alert in the area, and, fortunately, I know the language of the Thames Conservancy Board sufficiently well to know what this means. I was therefore able to disregard suggestions that this was some kind of instruction from Conservative Central Office about Communist subversion. Every time there is heavy rain my constituents in the affected area must move their furniture to the upstairs floors of their homes and suffer anxiety about possible damage to their homes. I speak on their behalf when I hope the Government will give the highest priority to the schemes to alleviate flooding from the rivers Mole, Wey and Bourne. If it were not for the fact that the House is treating me with its customary tolerance and courtesy hon. Members might be asking, ""What is an hon. Member for a Surrey constituency doing taking part in a debate on industry and energy?"" Well, I have to tell you, Mr. Speaker, that, contrary to popular belief, my constituents do not live only by the turn of the money market or the commissions of the stock market. There are many successful companies, both large and small, operating within the Chertsey and Walton constituency. Some of the larger firms are household names, such as Decca, Plessey, Birds Eye and the British Aircraft Corporation. With a work force of over 6,000, BAC is the largest single employer in my con-  stituency and from time to time that work force has an attack of the collywobbles about the uncertainty of its future. If the House thinks that the British Aircraft Corporation is totally synonymous with Concorde, I would remind hon. Members that parts of the multi-rôle combat aircraft and parts of the Anglo-French Jaguar aircraft are made at Weybridge. In addition, although these are made elsewhere, the BAC guided weapons systems are extremely successful and have earned many millions of pounds in foreign exchange for this country. With regard to Concorde, I have to own up to something in the region of an unholy alliance between myself and the right hon. Member for Bristol, South-East (Mr. Benn). My end of BAC at Weybridge makes the front half of Concorde and his end at Filton puts it together and makes part of the tail unit. I cannot fly without him and he certainly cannot fly without me. The approval to go ahead with Concorde was given as long ago as 1962. Since then a lot of money has been spent on it, both in Britain and in France. We now have a superb aircraft which leads the world in supersonic transportation. We British have inventiveness and skills which are unrivalled anywhere in the world but we seem to be peculiarly inept when it comes to developing our inventions and selling them to people abroad. Too often the Americans are allowed to exploit our initiative and technological bridgeheads. What I am most terrified about is that the faint hearts of the so-called quality Sunday newspapers will have their say, that the faint hearts might win the day and will talk us into giving up our lead. From meetings I have had with the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington and with BAC's rivals at Long Beach in California, no one would be more delighted than the Americans if we, at this late stage, opted out of supersonic transportation and all the spin-off technical knowledge that we have gained. I am striving to be non-controversial but the House will recall the cancellation in 1964 by the then new Labour Government of TSR2 and its replacement soon afterwards by an American product. Here was yet another case of the British snatching defeat out of the jaws of victory. With certain success just around   the corner we gave up and joined the queue of buyers. Many of the present BAC workers worked on TSR2. They fear a repeat of history with Concorde from this Government. That must not be. The other great fear is the irrelevance of nationalisation, and I was, therefore, extremely pleased to see no mention of that in the Gracious Speech. What the British Aircraft Corporation wants to see is an early Government endorsement of the recent French Government announcement made by M. Guena in Paris on 19th February. In that announcement the French suggested restricting the rate of build to four aircraft per year, to installing an extra fuel tank of 4½ metric tonnes which would increase the range and, therefore, the sales potential, and clearance to build and order material for a further three aircraft, making 19 in all. This is what we want to hear: a positive commitment, a positive belief in ourselves as a country and also a positive belief in the aerospace industry itself—an industry which earned a record £500 million for this country in 1973. We have a lot to be proud of. Let us hear it for Britain, and let us face the future with confidence.
