gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like the hon. Members for Bodmin (Mr. Bessell) and Halifax (Dr. Summerskill), I crave the indulgence of the Committee as I make my maiden speech. The constituency which I have the honour to represent includes not only the young and very vigorous Borough of Bebington itself, but also that part of the County Borough of Birkenhead which is not already represented in the House of  Commons by the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Dell). I am sure that right hon. and hon. Members on both sides will remember with affection and respect my predecessor as the Member for the division, Lord Oakshott of Bebington, who represented it so faithfully since its creation in 1950. The devoted services which he gave to all sections of the community in Bebington won him equal effection and respect throughout the division. He has been most kind to me as the candidate who sought to succeed him, and I know that it would be the wish of hon. Members on both sides to join me in congratulating him on the honour conferred on him during the Recess and saying how glad we are that he will have the continued opportunity, we hope, of many years of public service in another place. There is another feature about my constituency which is, possibly, of a slightly more controversial nature, though I hope not so. In the heart of the division is the Wirral Grammar School. It was at that school that the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister spent what must I suppose be described as his formative years. He was apparently an enthusiastic member of the school dramatic society. The school magazine records this verdict on his first performance there 31 years ago: H. Wilson as a middle-aged businessman was convincing and direct. With more vivacity he should do well. Possibly more portentous to my hon. Friends would have been the rather more brief verdict on his second performance a year later: H. Wilson was a most villainous villain. I know that my constituents would wish me most sincerely on this occasion to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on his appointment as Prime Minister, a great distinction for an ex-citizen of the Borough of Bebington. I do this most warmly and most sincerely. Like the hon. Lady the Member for Halifax, I should like to say a very few words about the category of people identified by the Chancellor yesterday, as the elderly, the sick and the needy. In the Borough of Bebington just over two years ago the borough Old People's Welfare Committee undertook a survey of all the elderly people. The number of old people over the age of 65 of both   sexes was ascertained to be just about 5,000. One-fifth of them lived alone. About 300 of them were housebound. Those figures are probably very typical of many other constituencies. It is perhaps one of the more valuable features of the conventional procedure of electioneering through which we have all gone very recently that we are able to meet so many people who we do not normally meet outside their homes and to renew our awareness of the personal and pressing nature of the problems which many of them face. The increases proposed by the Chancellor in the retirement pension have been matched by identical increases suggested in the National Assistance provisions. That particular course of action which the Government are proposing interests me in the light of some observations contained in a pamphlet produced by a group of young Fabians only two years ago, entitled ""National Assistance: service or charity?"" That pamphlet contains this message: … it is safe to assume that a Labour Government""— that is talking of what would have happened in 1959— would have raised National Assistance rates, as well as pension rates. However, this would have meant that the numbers on National Assistance would have increased. National Assistance recipients would have admittedly been enjoying a higher standard of living, but the task of reducing National Assistance to a minor role would have been retarded. That is not intended as a preface to a controversial observation. The Government have chosen to adopt this method at this time to meet the standard suggested by the hon. Member for Halifax when she said that social justice means the relating of income to need. It is the Government's first method of fulfilling the objective, which, I think, was first referred to by the hon. Member for Jarrow (Mr. Fernyhough) who moved the Address in reply to the Gracious Speech, of the principle: to each according to his needs. I do not presume that this is the Government's last word upon it. We know that a minimum income guarantee is under consideration and may or may not be decided, but it involves recognition of the arguments contained in the pamphlet from which I have quoted that it simply is not prac-  tical politics to meet the needs of the existing generation of people in need by flat rate increases at a higher level. Such a course would involve spending about 10 per cent. of the total national income on social security. The same point was covered in the manifesto of the Conservative Party at the last election when we said that help will be concentrated first and foremost on those whose needs are greatest. The point, like so many others, has been put with the greatest clarity by my right hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Mr. Powell), whom I am delighted to see in his place, when he said, not many months ago, Benefits for all are the enemy of care for the few. That is the principle accepted in fact—let us be frank about this—by both sides of the Committee. Both sides are striving for a method of identifying those citizens of our community most in need and securing for those people a standard of living as high as the community can possibly afford. It is a principle which I suggest is unanswerable, the principle of selectivity. How this is to be implemented has involved the suggestion of various mehods. Right hon. and hon. Members opposite are now espousing a suggestion which has been made for some years by hon. Members on this side of the Committee for a scheme which should to some extent be based on the P.A.Y.E. Income Tax code system. The Conservative Party during the last election was to some extent espousing a method of identifying particular groups in the community whose needs were greater than others—more elderly pensioners, more recent widows, and categories of that kind. The point that I invite the Committee to accept is one which was most clearly put by the hon. and learned Member who formerly represented Kettering, Mr. Mitchison, when he said In a sense we can say that this is a means test"",— he was speaking of guaranteed minimum income proposals— just as an Income Tax return is a means test, but it is in a quite different sense from what it has been in the past. The plea I make is that when proposals are put forward from either side   of the Committee they will not be condemned from the opposite side of the Committee simply because they involve going back to the means test. A test of means is implicit in many social services. It is one which we already freely accept and for which all parties have in the past made legislative provision. A test of means is administered for the supply of school meals and milk free of charge, for the granting of legal aid, and for the home helps service. For all the social services we accept the notion, as the hon. Member for Halifax said, of relating income to means and need. For none of these services has anyone suggested universal free provision, regardless of need and regardless of the means of the recipient. It is only when this principle, generally accepted throughout the Committee, comes to be applied by either party to the central section of social security, to provision for retirement pensioners particularly, that hon. Members on the opposite side of the Committee, whichever that happens to be, are easily tempted to condemn the proposal out of hand as involving a means test. My hope is that hon. and right hon. Members on both sides of the Committee will support the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, North-East (Sir K. Joseph) when and if either of them bring forward proposals which represent a real step towards the solution of this problem which besets us all. The solution at which we finally arrive must be one of which all in need can take advantage. It must be one that is simple. It must have a real flavour of humanity about its administration, and it must take account of differing needs as well as of differing means. We should all be wary of attaching to it the so-called stigma that has so often been said to have attached to similar proposals put forward from both sides of the Committee in the past. We can perhaps agree on this point. The only defect about a means test as a matter of principle, as administered by both parties in the House in the past, has perhaps been that it has been too darned mean, if I may put it in that way. We wish to achieve more generous provision and use the means test in a modern sense to achieve this. The point  was best made, again by the former hon. and learned Member for Kettering, in the last Parliament, when he said: This is not a matter that we want to debate in terms of slogans, or anything of that kind. We are dealing with old people who have not enough to live on, and we are trying to make their lot more comfortable. Let us for heaven's sake not get this thing cockeyed by putting the wrong label, or the right label in the wrong way, on it. Let us look at the scheme on its merits.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 10th December, 1963; Vol. 686, c. 244–5.] I thank the Committee for the indulgence which it has shown to me on my maiden speech, and I hope, perhaps like the hon. Lady the Member for Halifax, that I may have other opportunities of speaking in the future.
