gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel sure the Committee will, with its accustomed generosity, extend to me that measure of kindness which is a privilege so cherished by those who address it for the first time, like myself. I am sure the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North (Mr. Edward Davies) will forgive me if I do not follow him in his arguments as I am very short of time, if, indeed, I could follow him. I wish to refer entirely to the Economic Survey. The words which stick in my throat are those which my right hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot (Mr. Lyttelton) referred to at the close of his speech today when he quoted from the document:  The Government, therefore, regard it as of vital importance that we should continue the major economic and financial policies by which we were guided over the last three years. I do not wish to abuse my privilege, but I say, heaven preserve us from such guidance. I searched and, I fear, in vain for some concrete signs that hon. Members opposite had changed their minds—as I believe they have been known to do —and had realised at last that there is only one road by which we can assure ourselves of a sound future when Marshall Aid comes to an end. If we are to achieve that object with any measure of success, it will not be by any form of restrictive planning but by opening up opportunities and providing incentives and, above all, by permitting our commerce to manage its own business affairs without anything like as much guidance as that to which the Economic Survey refers. That desirable, indeed essential aim, can never be achieved so long as we are taxed beyond our capacity and controlled so as to impair our ability to ensure a healthy future for the trade by which we live. No one will dispute—indeed the Chancellor affirmed it—that we are moving at an ever-increasing rate into a more competitive state of world markets. If we are to maintain our export advances let alone expand them, we must be highly competitive. For that costs must come down and production must go up. The principal cause of high costs, directly or indirectly, is without a shadow   of doubt, the high level of taxation. The main cause of insufficient production is a lack of incentives which derives from the same cause. Whilst we have this vicious spiral of unsound economy, it will lead us into trouble because we cannot always rest on the advantages we have had in the last few years. As far as I can judge from the Budget speech, we are still being asked to provide an insupportable level of taxation of practically 40 per cent. of the national income. Not for the first time has it been said in this Committee that so high a burden of taxation cannot be borne by our people if sales are to expand at home and abroad, if costs are to be lowered and if we are to maintain the standards of living we wish to see. It follows from this that the principle methods of lowering costs and providing incentives is undoubtedly a drastic cut in Government expenditure and there is plenty of scope in the administrative field, as my right hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot only too clearly indicated earlier in the Debate. I should like to say a word on the cost of living, which is causing such disquiet and grave concern to my constituents in Shipley, as indeed it is to the constituents of every hon. Member of this Committee. The purchasing power of the £ has fallen to just over 16s. compared with what it was four or five years ago. That is shattering, and in all fairness I think that every Member, whatever his party may be, agrees that it is shattering, and that it is a grievous burden on our people. But I do not think that all hon. Gentlemen opposite realise that it is a real danger signal to the whole of our economy. Search as I will, I can find no suggestions of policy that will meet, let alone remedy, this evil in any measure. I am sure hon. Members opposite must know that the official cost of living index is artificial, and bears little relationship to the true cost of living which our people are having to face today. We all know that the import price index has risen by 13 per cent. in the last six months and the wholesale price index by 6 per cent. The fact that manufactured stocks and wholesale stocks have held back and helped to hold the level of retail prices is a temporary phase, and with increasing momentum that difficulty, arising so  largely out of devaluation, will add to the burdens of our people at a time when the Budget makes no worth while provision to make people feel that they have some reasonable future, security and chance. How is the cost of living index to be handled and kept down by this Government except by those dubious methods of robbing Peter to pay Paul, or, as likely as not, robbing Peter to pay Peter? I wish to say a word about the fixed income groups, especially pensioners and those who have retired, for they have had a very raw deal throughout the whole period of the previous Administration, a raw deal which continues to this day. Hard as the wage earners are hit, they have in the main, as the Chancellor himself indicated this week, had several and in some cases quite substantial advances. The lot of the old age pensioners, disabled ex-Service men and those who have retired on almost a lifetime's savings, has been hard, and as Members on both sides of the Committee must admit, there are cases where it has been literally cruel. I can find no measures that will help to meet their immediate needs. I suggest that it is no solution to give them pensions and allowances, and even minor adjustments of those allowances, when at the same time the purchasing power of their money is going down as month succeeds month. What they require is the confidence which is so aptly summed up in that phrase in my party's election manifesto ""honest money."" To give them ""honest money ""requires not palliatives but a radical change of policy on the lines we have mentioned time after time from these benches, and upon which I have, with modesty, dared to touch upon. With profound respect, and however hopeless it may be, I appeal to hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, although I know that only a change of administration can give that confidence, to realise that if only they can—I mean it in all friendliness—loosen up their minds a little and try to get rid of some of that rigidity of outlook on theories which have been long exploded by facts, if only they will lift their policies from the planners' wilderness and order our affairs on realistic lines of sound national   economy, we shall be turning in the right way and taking the right road for the future security of our people.
