gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with pride and pleasure that I speak for the first time in this House as Member for Dundee, East—pride and pleasure that I was chosen by the people of Dundee, East to follow George Thomson, who served the constituency for more than 20 years, and served it very well. I believe that he served it for longer than any other Member has represented the people of Dundee before he resigned to become one of the first British Commissioners of the European Economic Community. Before entering Parliament George Thomson was a journalist, but he quickly adapted himself to the procedure of this House—something I am finding a little more troublesome than he did. He won the respect of all sections of the community, not only in Dundee but also in Monifieth, where he lived, and I am happy to say that both communities are to present him with the freedom of their burghs. Although he and I differ in one of our basic premises in politics—membership of the EEC—nevertheless there are many things that both George and I are agreed about. One of these is the unemployment with which Dundee is faced. Dundee is the second largest industrial city in Scotland and is, unfortunately, second also only to Glasgow in the level of unemployment with a rate of 6·2 per cent., which is higher than the Scottish average and almost double the national average. Unemployment is therefore a very real problem in Dundee, and the threat of   further unemployment, especially in the shipbuilding industry, is a matter with which I shall concern myself, just as the people of Dundee are concerned about it. Dundee is a fairly famous place and I do not need to dwell too much on its aspects. Its people are warm and friendly and I trust that I shall learn to be as warm and friendly as they are and to fight as well as any Dundonian on their behalf. The fabric of any city is second to the people in it. It is people who matter most. That is the concept I hold in politics and it is on this basis that I fight for the principles in which I believe. Politics is about people. It is not just about economics or any other science, except in so far as those sciences can better the quality of life of the people. In Dundee there is great friendliness and warmth in the people, but there is also very deep concern about unemployment. Dundee has a population of 182,000, with 78,000 working men and women. They are deprived in one respect: they do not, I understand, have as many bingo halls and pubs as are the lot of working men and women in other parts of the country. Whether that is true or not, certainly Dundee working people do not spend all their time in bingo parlours or pubs. They are industrious people and would certainly be more industrious if the Government took more positive steps to provide the industry that Dundee needs. Dundee is a fair city, and with 10,000 more females than men it has an obvious attraction. The beautiful countryside around it is another attraction, so much so that I am hoping that within six months I shall be a resident of Dundee and eventually a true Dundonian. That is probably difficult for any Englishman to achieve, but I shall do my best to achieve it. Obviously I wish to comment on the Budget and obviously, as it affects the people of Dundee, the Budget does not do enough to bring employment to deprived areas, of which Dundee is an outstanding example, within Scotland, which is itself a deprived area as regards unemployment. There is likely to be the loss of the shipbuilding industry on Tayside, which could have very serious consequences not only for the men and women of Dundee but for the people of the country generally. It is on issues of  this kind that I intend to be fighting within this Chamber for the people of Dundee. Obviously, one thing about the Budget which I welcome, as I am sure everyone in this Chamber welcomes it, is the fact that value added tax is not to be imposed on children's clothing. It is probably important that that should be so because we learn today that the Department of Trade and Industry has agreed to price increases in raw materials that will in any event increase the price of all clothing, not just children's clothing. I would have liked the zero-rating of VAT to go even further, because there is a real concern, not only in Dundee but, I presume, in the rest of the country, and not just within charitable organisations to which the Chancellor made concessions, concerning the equipment that is used by the blind and other handicapped people, such as talking books, equipment for guide dogs and so on, which is still to be subject to VAT. I urge the Chancellor and the Government to look further at this and to take steps to see that the requirements to assist these handicapped people are zero-rated. I shall be fighting here for the people of Dundee and for the people of Scotland. It may be that one of the issues in the election campaign—the fact that I am an Englishman—will be of some advantage to the people of Dundee and of Scotland since they will have an English voice speaking of the kind of problems that people have up there rather than its being said that ""It is those so-and-so Scotsmen again bemoaning their lot."" There is concern about unemployment and things of that nature, and I am as concerned as any Scot about the situation I found in Scotland.
