gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House in rising to speak for the first time. I need that indulgence more than most hon. Members making their maiden speeches because I have spent most of my life in the Regular Army, and while 20 years in the ranks may qualify one, as the right hon. Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler) said, to speak the refinement of our language as learnt at the sergeant-major's knee, it does not necessarily qualify one to talk about strategy. I have served in most parts of the Empire in which British soldiers are called upon to serve, and I want to refer in a little more detail to one matter which was touched upon by the right hon. Member for Saffron Walden, that is, the part which the Colonial Forces should play in post-war defence policy. The right hon. Gentleman was quite right in paying a tribute to the East and West African Forces, the work they did in Abyssinia, and the very gallant part they played in the Burmese campaign. Before the war, those Forces were under the control of the Colonial Office. The only link with Imperial strategy or with the War Office was maintained by the Inspectors-General in East and West Africa. However qualified the Colonial Office may be I do not think they are qualified to handle military matters, and, therefore, at the outbreak of the war, the King's African Rifles and the Royal West African Frontier Force were little more than token forces. The needs of the situation demanded that they should be developed very quickly, and they were increased to the tune of half a million men. If we do again what we did after the last war, we shall allow those Forces to dwindle, and hand them back to the Colonial Office. If that happens, we shall find in the West African Frontier Force that the medium of training will be based upon the Hausa language, and the Hausa language is not universal throughout the West African Colonies. It is spoken   mainly in the Northern Provinces of Nigeria. If at any time our military commitments demand the quick building up of forces in West Africa, the only possible lingua franca would be English. I do not claim that a detailed knowledge of English is essential for the training of West African forces, but with a quite limited vocabulary, these men can be taken from tribal areas remote from contact with white civilization, and very quickly turned into very efficient soldiers handling modern weapons of war. As an example of the limitations of language, I would like to recall an experience I had about a year ago in Freetown. I was visiting an anti-aircraft site and talking to the battery commander about the problem of conversing with his men. He called one to him, and, pointing to a 40 mm. Bofors, said, ""Boy, what be that?"" The boy replied, ""That, master, be humbug for steam chickens."" With ingenuity, the limitations of the pidg in English can be got over. We got over them in this war with magnificent results. I ask the Government to look very carefully into this problem, and decide to bring the control of the Colonial Forces directly under the War Office. I am conscious that this problem, like most problems, comes down to money. Before the war the principle was maintained that each Colony had to be responsible for its own internal defence, which meant that the money raised in a particular Colony had to bear the charge of the forces raised in that Colony. I think we have to be prepared to face up to the cost, and that if we do, we shall obtain a very considerable addition to the manpower reserve, not only from the angle of a strategic reserve, but from the point of view of the contribution which the introduction of military service, either on a voluntary or a compulsory scale, would make to the well being of those Colonies. I hold the view that the Report which was presented by the Colonial Office on Mass Education in Africa will remain just a paper programme unless we utilise the opportunity afforded by calling men up for service, and not only training them to fight, but training them to take their part as citizens in the community. I should probably be out of Order if I went too far along this road, but it strikes me  as very interesting that when tribute is paid to the development of mass education in China and in Russia, the fact is overlooked that the Red Army in Russia was used as a means of developing social education. I am prepared to face up to the issues involved in following that policy. I would like now to say a few words on the question of building a reserve from Forces at home. The Prime Minister made the welcome statement that a policy was to be announced dealing with re-enlistment. I presume it will be along the lines of the policy followed at the end of the last war, when gratuities were paid to encourage men who had left, or were about to leave, the Army to come back again. I urge the need for something more than that. It may be, perhaps not this year or next year, but in the years that lie ahead, we may have need of a very quick reserve. If hon. Gentlemen will reflect upon the period between the two wars, they will recollect that we had to call up our Class A Reserve on more than one occasion. At the moment we have not got a Class A Reserve, and the building up of a reserve force is a rather slow business. Therefore, I put forward as worthy of consideration the proposal that financial inducements should be offered, if necessary, to encourage men leaving the Forces to undertake a definite reserve obligation until such time as a stronger reserve can be built up, either through the working of the militia system, or through the reserve system which follows in the wake of normal Regular Army engagements. Having spent a lifetime in the Regular Army, let me say quite frankly and honestly that I am not afraid of the bogies of compulsory military service. Any honest man who faces up to the obligations of this country knows very well that if we are to fulfil them we have to accept compulsory military service. Compulsory military service can be wholly a waste of time, but on the other hand, as I have tried to indicate in dealing with the Colonial forces, it can add something to the wellbeing of the individual concerned and it may add something to the wellbeing of the nation as a whole. I believe that if we follow the principle of using compulsory military service in that way we shall come to regard it as part of the educational   development of this country. In saying that, I am not arguing that we should clamp down a definite period of military service to last for ever and ever, but I see no reason at all why, if one accepts the principle of compulsory education, there should not be part-time compulsory service for the defence of one's country. Until men reach the heights, and can live as they perhaps will live one day when we get a wholly Christian society, somebody has to play the policeman. I have played the policeman in a very modest way during the major part of my life, and I am not afraid or ashamed of the record. The mere fact that I am speaking from these benches tonight shows that I have not altogether wasted my time.
