gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with particular pleasure that I follow my hon. Friend the Member for Ton-bridge and Mailing (Mr. Stanley). It is clear from his speech that many of the problems that afflict his own constituents in Kent are those which are felt in my part of Surrey. I should start my first speech to this House by explaining that the seat I represent is rather different from that which bore the same name in the last Parliament. The new Reigate constituency is made up of two parts. One is the old borough of Reigate, previously represented by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Surrey. East (Sir  G. Howe), and the other part is the old urban district of Banstead, which was part of the former Carshalton constituency, represented by Captain Walter Elliot. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Captain Elliot. The House will be well aware of his distinguished service to it, notably on the Chairmen's Panel. I might add that he served his constituents every bit as well as he served Parliament. My constituency, like many others and like that of my hon. Friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling, is deeply concerned about the problems of modern transport and their impact on the environment. At this moment no fewer than two motorways are being carved through my constituency at considerable environmental cost. However, the main local anxiety concerns air transport, because we lie just to the north of Gatwick. Frankly, we are amazed how many people cheerfully contemplate scrapping Maplin on environmental grounds, yet are prepared to accept the desecration of the Surrey green belt that would result from expanding Gatwick. The fear is not so much of aircraft noise—quieter aircraft may take care of that—as of the consequent expansion of road and rail communications to the airport, the increased population required to service it, and the safety risk from heavier air traffic over residential areas. After my constituency, I should like to mention an institution here in the Palace of Westminster, to which I owe a great deal; namely, the Parliamentary Press Gallery and the corps of Lobby correspondents within it. I do not know whether I am the first Lobby correspondent serving daily newspapers to fall from grace from the Press Gallery straight on to the Floor of the House, but I am certainly the first to do so for many years. There is a healthy love-hate relationship here between the Press and politicians, but, of course, we co-habit the same building. In making this move I feel that I have simply rolled over to the other side of the bed. So I join many Members of this House who are deeply aware of the contribution which the Press Gallery and its members play in the corporate life of Parliament. We recognise that they are almost as much political animals as we are. After   all, if they were not, they would never work the hours here that they do. Whereas on some occasions we are able to slip away by pairing, there is no such thing as pairing in the Press Gallery. From the Gallery one has watched many Budgets presented. One of the first I witnessed, Mr. Speaker, was your own so-called ""lollipop Budget"", which one might call ""lollipop mark I"". I witnessed many others, too. So it was with some excitement this year that one awaited what was built up as the ""Robin Hood Budget""—taking from the rich and giving to the poor. Having heard it, I must say that the standards of marksmanship in Sherwood Forest are not what they were. Far from picking off the Sheriff of Nottingham, the Chancellor is reaching into the pockets of his retinue and foot servants. Little of the extra tax revenue in this Budget is being taken from the wealthy. Instead, as we always warned, the middle income earners will have to pay up, and, through indirect taxation, so will many ordinary working men and women. I fear that the Chancellor's measures will have a very critical reception from income earners such as those who live in my constituency and many other parts of the South-East. In my years of serving regional newspapers here I have become keenly aware of the feeling of those in the regions—as expressed by their Members of Parliament—that they were not getting a fair share of new industrial and office development. That is a sentiment with which I have great sympathy. But I ask the House to recognise that there are many people living in the South-East today who now feel that they are being made to carry an unfair burden. They earn salaries which would be regarded in other parts of the country as extremely good. But they live in a region of very high living costs, particularly for housing. To reach their place of work they have to buy season tickets which are constantly jumping in price. In Reigate, as in other parts of this region, there are families earning £3,500 to £4,000 per year who find it increasingly hard to afford an annual holiday. They are not the wealthy whom the Labour Party promised to tax in its election manifesto. Yet under  this Budget they are being taxed as though they were. Why have those people, whose taxable income falls between £4,500 and £5,000, been singled out for such heavy punishment? If they live in the South-East they cannot be called wealthy either. But now all these people find the burden of tax increases put upon them, plus higher pension contributions, plus 12½ per cent. on their season tickets to commute to work. Though rents have been frozen, absolutely nothing has been done to stop mortgage interest rates rising still further. We gather that the Secretary of State for the Environment and the building societies are to have urgent talks about this problem. They had better come up with something, for, if mortgage rates go up to 13 per cent. as threatened, many families who have bought a home in the South-East over the past two years will no longer be able to afford it; yet they cannot sell their home and move elsewhere because they will not be able to recover a price comparable to that which they paid two years ago. If that happens, Ministers will find that they are bankrupting not only firms but families too. If those owing their own homes are made to pay increased taxes and rates so that rents can be subsidised, while nothing is done to avert 13 per cent. mortgage interest rates, it will be the most unjust and discriminatory housing policy that has ever been operated. These people in the professions, in middle management and in commerce are the very people whom we should be encouraging if our economy is to thrive. Instead, they are being squeezed into becoming a new category of poor. Many of them would be prepared to pay higher taxes for a genuine social purpose—to help those really in need or, for example, to provide the invalid cars we read of this week in the Sharp Report. But it will not wash to tell them now that they are being taxed to help the pensioners, for the bulk of that is being paid for from contributions. They know that two-thirds of the revenue from higher income tax this year is to go in food subsidies, across-the-board payments regardless of need, with no real social impact, making only a marginal difference to the average family's shopping bill. Budget Statements are, of course, big Parliamentary occasions, but sometimes I think that we do not treat them as big enough. We look over our shoulders for overseas confidence, and I certainly hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer continues to receive it. But a Budget should also engender confidence among our own people in their future. I must take issue, therefore, with those hon. Members on the Government benches, and with some on my own, who have poured scorn on the idea of making economic growth a prime objective of national policy. My hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Mr. Budgen), in a most eloquent maiden speech, last night claimed that what the people of this country were voting against in 1970 and again in 1974 was inflation above all else. With great respect, I do not think that that is entirely true. I share the utter abhorrence of inflation felt by the hon. Member and, I am sure, by other hon. Members. I agree that a major test of this Budget is what it does to tackle it. At the same time, we must recognise that those living and working in a modern industrial society have a right to expect that society to produce improvements in their standards of living, in social provision for those in need and in the environment. Those improvements can come only from economic growth. I do not believe that the electors have simply been turning on successive Governments and saying ""Do nothing else but beat inflation"". I think that the people expect political leaders to make possible the fruits of a modern industrial society, including an acceptable level of employment without stimulating dangerous inflation in the process. I am convinced that much of the bitterness that we have witnessed in industrial relations in recent years springs directly from Britain's persistently low rate of growth since the last war. If we do not get a higher growth rate, I fear that industrial and social resentment will become increasingly deep and bitter. If this Budget fails to lay the basis for that growth by encouraging investment and instead fosters the notion that we can jog along on the kind of economic performance that we have averaged since the war, I believe that the Chancellor  will have failed the British people in their greatest need.
