gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time that I have ventured to address the House, and although it would be presumptuous of me to ask for the indulgence of hon. Members for so haggard a maiden, I hope that they will bear with me if I am not as coherent as I should like to be. I am glad that the Minister of Labour has decided to call his Advisory Committee together to give him advice on whether a new cost-of-living index could properly now be brought into being. It would no doubt be improper for me to comment upon the speeches that have been made in the debate, but I am glad that my right hon. Friend is taking action in this way and calling the statisticians together, because it would be better to have the job done by them than by politicians. Although, as I say, it is improper for me to comment on the speeches of hon. Members, some of the statistical heresies to which I have listened today have sent shivers up and down my spine. I do not know what the Advisory Committee will say to my right hon. Friend, but the chances are that they will advise him that the present is not an opportune time to introduce a new cost-of-living index. There are many reasons for this. This index, as many hon. Members have said, must be based on an accepted pattern of living habits, and if those habits were in the process of changing considerably within a short period the basis of the index would quickly go out of date. That could be covered, as has been suggested, by altering the basis of the index from time to time as living habits change. But, when we are in the process of big changes in living habits, it seems undesirable to start on the compilation of a new index. A new index, if introduced now, or if the basis of it is worked out at the moment, would be affected by the shortages of some articles which go into the cost of living. I am sure that no one would suggest that the present supplies of meat which  go into the budgets of average families could be considered normal or at least satisfactory, and that kind of shortage should work itself out before we talk of compiling a new index. In addition, an index introduced now would be affected, I hope, by the abnormally high level of taxation. No one can say what would happen if the present high level of tax on cigarettes and tobacco was reduced. It is quite probable that the buying habits of the people in regard to tobacco and cigarettes at lower prices would be quite considerable. At present we are having many changes in what might be called the social habits of the people and they have to work themselves out before we come to more stable conditions. For instance, a large number of people will be buying television sets within the next year or two as new television transmitters come into operation up and down the country. I believe that when people buy television sets their social habits change considerably. They probably spend less on beer and entertainment and spend more time at home. If we start collecting material for a new index now, in a few year's time it is quite likely that that material would be useless because the social habits of the people, or of a proportion of the people, will have changed very quickly. I agree that a new cost-of-living index is desirable, but I do not think that work should begin on it during this period when so many changes are taking place. The time to decide when it would be proper to undertake the preparatory work for a cost-of-living index is, of course, quite important. Suppose the Advisory Committee suggested to the Minister of Labour that the collection of family budgets, and so on, should begin as quickly as possible for the compilation of a new index. It would take some weeks or months to gather the investigators, together, to decide on the questions to go into the family budget questionnaires and to get the questionnaires printed. The inquiries would begin, perhaps, in the middle of next year when we should be just beginning to feel the full effects of our re-armament programme. One of the effects of the re-armament programme might be to alter the social pattern, the buying habits, of the people quite considerably. It is quite likely that   they would spend less than they have been spending on durable goods, furniture and household fittings, and so on, because there would be fewer of those things in the shops, perhaps, and to spend more of their income on immediately consumable things like beer and tobacco and such things as football pools and entertainment. It is quite possible that most wages will go up during the next year and if there are fewer durable things on which to spend higher wages that will alter the pattern of people's behaviour. That, I hope, will be temporary, but no one at this stage can say how long it will last. In the meantime, because I think it would be wrong, at this stage, to set on foot inquiries for the purpose of compiling a new cost-of-living index, it would be desirable to go ahead with the social surveys which have been suggested from both sides of the House. In addition to the reasons which have been given, I have a reason for wanting these surveys which I do not think has been fully mentioned. I have the idea—I may be completely wrong and I want the information and data about it—that the differences in incomes and the differences in the patterns of expenditure today are widening, not only between middle class and working class, but within classes and particularly within the working class. We are now getting the situation, because so many of the lower paid workers have not had what I believe is their due, where steel workers, for instance, are coming out with wages of £15 a week and more, while some groups of railwaymen, at the end of their weeks' work, still come out with less than £6. The social effect of having one group of workers getting about three times more in earnings than another group of workers is that the pattern of social behaviour between groups is very much different and the differences are becoming wider. It will be extremely difficult to put the two groups together in a family budget survey, take an average and say that that average is the basis of a new cost-of-living index, because within that average there will be some items of expenditure which belong to the top group, the fellows who are well off, which do not appear at all in the budgets of the family below the line. If those items happen to come down in price there will be a suggestion that the cost of living has come down, whereas, in point of fact, a reduction in price of those articles, which did not go into the family budget of the lower paid people, will not affect the standard of living of the people getting the lowest wages. That being so I want more information about this spread of wages and the wide differences in earnings and the wide differences in patterns of expenditure of various groups which make up what we call the working class. I also want to see—and I am sure that this is the wish of the whole House—a very good scientific and rather widespread survey of the incomes and living habits of the middle class, and of old age pensioners. I may be wrong about it, but I have a feeling that the present Interim Index of Retail Prices has less relation to the standards of behaviour of pensioners than to any other group in the community. I would like to see just how old age pensioners are living, where they are feeling the pinch and how their standards compare with the standards of those living on wages and salaries. That is an inquiry which is long overdue. That leads me to suggest that rather than ask the Minister's Advisory Committee to advise on a new cost-of-living index, it would be better to ask the Advisory Committee to set about preparing the basis for a complete survey into the incomes and living habits of the whole community. Do not leave anyone out; let us bring the whole community in. I see no reason at all why residents of mansions and expensive apartments in Park Lane should not be visited by the Minister's investigators just as the investigators, visit old age pensioners, workers, bank clerks, and so on. I would like a complete survey of the whole community so that out of the information that comes through that survey we could decide when it is an opportune time, an appropriate time, to start the compilation of a new cost-of-living index. I want to see a new cost-of-living index for the reasons given by hon. Members on both sides of the House—there is no point in repeating them—but I am convinced that the present time is inopportune for that. But the present is opportune for the wider survey that I   have suggested, a survey which will show us just how the people of the country are living and what effect post-war changes have had on the living habits of the whole community.
