gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In the 1601 Parliament, it is recorded, one, Zachariah Locke, rose to speak and for very fear stood still, and after a time sat down. While I fully share Zachariah Locke's apprehension, I will do my best, with the kind encouragement which this House always gives to those endeavouring to make a maiden speech, to avoid following his example, at least not before I have made a few remarks on this Motion. As a subject for my maiden speech, I naturally looked for some matter upon which I had some slight knowledge. I selected the Geneva Agreement because in 1944, I happened to be one of the representatives of the British National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce. The hon. Member for Edgbaston (Sir P. Bennett) was also a representative, and we attended the International Business Conference in Rye in the State of New York. This was not a Government conference, but was sponsored by various leading trade organisations in the United States. So far as the  other countries which came from overseas—and there were 52 of them represented at the conference—were concerned, most of their representatives were selected by the International Chamber of Commerce. Although it was not a Government Conference, it was quite certain that the United States Government took a very keen interest in its deliberations. It is fair to say that most of the subsequent negotiations that have led up to the Geneva Conference have been influenced by the discussions that took place at Rye. I mention this because it was already apparent at that conference that among informed American opinion there was a growing realisation in the United States that trade is a two-way traffic, and that, if the United States was to embark upon a great postwar expansion of its export trade, it would be necessary, if American exports were to be paid for, that imports into the United States should be stepped up, and that the easiest method of achieving this object was for the United States to agree to a general lowering of their tariffs. The American business man, who has a very great influence with the United States Government, is not unnaturally given to seek for any concession a quid pro quo. In return, therefore, for a reduction in the United States tariffs, many of which were very high, the United States Government pressed for two things. One was that other countries should agree to make a simultaneous reduction in tariffs, not necessarily pro rata, but, nevertheless, in a general downward direction; and the second was—and this is the important point so far as we are concerned—that the British in particular should be asked to agree to a reduction in Imperial Preference. In 1944, we could not foresee how immeasurably worse our economic position would become in 1948. We knew that the whole question of our balance of payments would be very acute when the war was over, but we could not foresee that the hon. Members opposite would be sitting where they are today, nor could we foresee that the energies and the whole attention of His Majesty's Government during the vital two years immediately after the war, would be almost entirely devoted to schemes for nationalisation, while the economic position of our country steadily deteriorated.   The point therefore, which puzzles hon. Members on this side of the House is that this insistance by our American friends on a reduction in Imperial Preference has come at a time when, owing to our economic difficulties, it may well be desirable both from our own and, indeed, from the United States point of view, not to reduce, but actually to increase Imperial Preference. We must remind our American friends that they have in the United States the largest and most highly-protected trading area on the face of the earth, and it is the very essence of a satisfactory system of multilateral trade that the nations participating in that trade should have recovered their economic strength, so that there will be general confidence in trading conditions and in the ability of each and every one of these countries, to pay for the goods which they buy. The whole point is that at the present time there is no such confidence. The first requisite is that we should build up in the British Commonwealth, and, indeed, in the whole of the sterling area, a trading area which has at its command sufficient natural resources to enable us to trade with the United States on reasonably level terms. The Foreign Secretary in one of those flashes of inspiration which come to great men has suggested a customs union for the Commonwealth. It is a suggestion that might very naturally come to anyone approaching a problem of this kind with an entirely fresh mind. Those who have watched the Dominions nurse their secondary industries behind high tariff walls over a number of years will know full well that such a plan is impracticable, or at any rate, unacceptable. The only instrument that we have to achieve our purpose in this matter is Imperial Preference, and the great objection to the Geneva Agreement is that by committing ourselves to a policy of reducing Imperial Preference, we are weakening one of the chief means lying to our hand by which we may achieve our economic recovery. If I might make one final point, it is this. In the 19th century—and as a dutiful back bencher on this occasion I might repeat some of the arguments which my right hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot (Mr. Lyttelton) has already made, and I am sure the House will bear with me as I do so  we led the world in international trade. We were, and indeed still are, the world's largest importers. In spite of that, in the 19th century we had a large favourable balance of trade. We spent that favourable balance by exporting our capital which we used to develop and fructify every country in the world where our trade penetrated. Today it is the United States which has the largest favourable trade balance that any country has ever had. The United States are not large importers, and with their great natural resources and their great productive capacity, it is difficult to see that they ever will be. In consequence, we shall never arrive at a condition satisfactory for multilateral trade until the way has been made clear for the private American investor to invest his capital overseas. At present there is practically nowhere where he can invest his money with any confidence. Until that day dawns when capital can once again flow freely, Members on this side of the House will cling to Imperial Preference which has served us so well in the past, and pursue bilateral agreements which, while more limited in scope, are nevertheless more productive of immediate results and more in line with the realities of our present position. May I thank the House for their kind indulgence to one who is not only new to this House but, indeed, new to politics? I trust the House will forgive my intrusion into the Debate on this weighty subject, which might better have been left to the experts, but it does enable me to dispose of my maiden speech. I can now follow Zachariah Locke's example with some relief and sit down.
