gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with due humility that I rise on this occasion to make my maiden speech.' As I have sat here these last few months, I have seen numbers of hon. Gentlemen rise and make flawless speeches, and I have said to myself, ""Today it is now or never with me."" You, Sir, have decided it is now, and, with the indulgence of the House, I hope you will not think at the end of my speech I should have chosen the other alternative. I am particularly pleased to have caught your eye, Sir, on a housing Debate, because to my mind it is the subject which, next to demobilisation, is agitating the hearts and minds of the people of the country. But   in this we must, I think, keep a due sense of proportion. We cannot expect His Majesty's Government to repair in five months the ravages of centuries of neglect of the great housing problem. The Minister of Health in his speech a few weeks ago outlined the scope of this problem and decided—and with him I agree—that the bulk of the housing programme must be to provide homes for rent, and for rent at reasonable rates, so that the people who are now without houses, or are living in overcrowded, insanitary conditions shall have suitable accommodation as soon as possible. From my own experience, I believe there is no problem at all for the well-to-do. I have tried to find a house myself in London, and in the space of 20 minutes I could have bought 50 houses at a price from£2,000 upwards, but, of course, a Member's salary does not run to that. I would go further than the Minister has gone. He is allowing£1,200 for the local authorities for the building of houses. I would say that not one brick and not one workman should be diverted from the provision of houses to rent until such advertisements as we see in the papers for houses at£2,000 and£3,000 have completely disappeared. I want to deal for a while with this problem of temporary housing, because I think it has not had sufficient attention paid to it. In my own constituency of Stockton-on-Tees we have been faced with this problem of young people returning from the Forces, of people who have been living two and three families in one house, and I know a case of people actually being born, living and dying in one room. I know of a family of 11 living in one room; a baby was born, the baby died, and there it had to remain until the funeral, for want of other accommodation. Whatever the faults of these temporary houses—and there are plenty—they are designed to meet an immediate need, and for that reason I welcome this Bill which will enable the Minister to proceed with completing this temporary housing programme. I would like to say a few words about the American type of house, because it has given rise to considerable alarm in my constituency. As part of our programme, we were allotted 66 of these houses. We had to take them; we did not particularly want them. I was present  when the first crate was undone. I saw a magnificent maple wood floor laid on the prepared foundation, and I thought this was the very thing we wanted. That was three months ago, and up to the present we have not got one of those temporary houses ready for occupation, because they have been seriously deficient in certain articles. Parts of them have been damaged coming over, and there have been no spare parts. The water system has been wrong for the water in the constituency. At this moment, as I say, there is not one ready. I believe that all the jerry-building firms in America rubbed their hands with glee and rushed in to fulfil these contracts, and I, for one, am not sorry that the end of Lend-Lease has come with regard to these American types of houses. But it does not alter the fact that these temporary houses are a solution, and for the returning Forces coming home now and being demobilised these houses will serve their purpose for the time being. In the last five or six years the men in the Forces have had no privacy of any kind, and no private lives; they have lived in barracks, grand hotels and castles all over the globe. I am quite sure that, with all their faults, these temporary houses will give them a satisfactory home for the first time in their married lives and for that purpose alone they are worth while. But this programme of building is not only a technical one. In fact, I think that this is the least important part of it. To my mind, this is a social problem, and the social security and housing problems are very closely interwoven. On that ground I would like to say a few words about rent. I believe that houses should be let, not because of the rents which the intending occupants can pay, but because of their need. To my mind, we have got to build for need and, as I say, not for profit. I would like to give an example of that from my own constituency; it is very apposite, I think. In 1927, there was half cleared a slum area. The part that was cleared went to a new housing estate; 710 people went to a new, well-built, well-designed, well-equipped housing estate, and the other half remained in the slum area. Before this move, the death rate in this slum area was 18.75 per 1,000. The next five years saw a tremendous change in this death rate; on the new estate, the death rate rose from 18.75 to 26.71 per 1,000. In the slum area it   became 20.45. That is a significant factor, and it must be borne in mind by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Works at this time. This great increase in the death rate in what was apparently an ideal housing site, was not explained by the number of old people dying, or the number of young people dying, because the incidence of death was spread over the intervening groups. It can be explained in this way as a contributory factor. The average rent in the slum area was 4s. 8d. a week. When the population moved to the new area the rent went up 9s. Ninety per cent, of the people were unemployed on this estate, and that 9s. was roughly 31 per cent, of their weekly budget. I think we can agree that that left nothing, or practically nothing, with which to buy food. As a matter of fact, under 3s. a week per man was available to buy food for these people. We have to keep that in mind in considering the cost of these houses. We have got to see that the rent in each case is not what is called an economic rent to reimburse the Minister of Works or the local authority for the exact cost of the house, because if we did that now with these temporary houses at the fantastic price of over£1,000 each, it would mean that something like£1 per week would have to be charged for the rent of these houses. I submit that at. the present time the maximum rent that we can expect for any new house that is being built to rent for ordinary people is 10s., or even under. I would say that 10s. is rather high. That means that the money that is available in this fund for the Minister of Works has got to be used to make up the difference between that 10s. or the£1, or whatever would be the cost of the economic rents of these buildings. I disagree emphatically with the right hon. Gentleman who preceded me, that we have to have some kind of balance between what is spent and what is returned on these houses. In my opinion, this is a great social problem. It affects the whole of the community, and the cost must be borne not by the tenant nor by the local authority but by the community as a whole. On those grounds, I welcome this Bill. I will be brief because we have had many speeches on this problem of housing. If words were bricks and if eloquent speeches were houses, there would be no problem, but I believe that one man on the job with a wheelbarrow  or a spade or a trowel can do more than any speech. We have had references to a military operation dealing with the housing problem. Acting on that basis, in the Government we have a chief of staff in the Minister of Health who has made his appreciation of the situation; he has decided a policy which is to be followed. This afternoon we have had the details of setting up a great quartermaster's store to deal with the housing problem, and I must say that the forceful and direct language of the Minister of Works was in keeping with quartermasters whom 1 have met. We have got to see flowing into this store all the things that we want—doors, baths, door-knobs, window-panes, lavatories and all the rest of it, but I implore him not to get the quartermaster mentality that we have in the Army. In the Army you ask for a thing, and the first reply you get from the quartermaster is, ""We have not got it."" We have got to see that the articles coming into these storehouses are passed out as quickly as possible, where they are wanted and in the numbers in which they are wanted. We have a chief of staff. We have got the quartermaster-general, but we have not got the men. This problem can only be tackled if we have got all three working in harmony. I want my right hon. Friends the Minister of Health and the Minister of Works to get hold of the other part of the trinity, the Minister of Labour, and make him the sergeant-major if you like, who will say, ""Give us the men from the Forces who have had anything to do with building."" Then let us march them along to the site, and for Heaven's sake let us get on with the job and break the back of this great problem before it breaks the hearts of many of the people in this country.
