gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House as a new Member, and with your permission, Mr. Speaker, I should like to speak on the problem of housing. The comparison, between the two world wars, of houses built by our opponents and those built since the end of the Second World War under a Labour Government is well known. In this Debate it has been stressed that over a similar period following the Second World War, by comparison with the same period after the First World War, the Labour Government, through financial aid to local authorities, built three houses to every one built by our opponents. This is a tremendous accomplishment when we realise that we have been hampered by a world shortage of building materials. Although in difficult circumstances we have done an excellent job of work, the problem remains immense, and I am sure that the Minister will do everything possible to speed up our house-building programme. I do not know whether it is possible, but I have been wondering whether the Minister might consider facilities for cheaper money. Would it be possible to reduce the interest rate from three per cent. to two per cent., to act as a spur and enable more houses to be built? I ask a further question. Would it be possible to review the whole character of housing in relation to needs? There are three periods in the lifetime of a married couple. There is the first period, when they have just been married, and, of course, have no children, in which case a house with one or two bedrooms, with   other suitable rooms in addition, might suffice. When they have been married 10 or 15 years, through the aegis of the local authority they may be supplied with accommodation in relation to their needs. There is also a third grouping involving accommodation in flats, in which we might have provision for flats or flatlets for old and elderly people. I think all this is well-known, and, as a member of a local authority, I have had many cases brought to my notice in which people have had their children married and have been left to maintain the same house as they maintained for so many years with a family of five, six or even seven children. I know of cases where women of more than 60 years of age have had to go out to work in order to pay the rent, merely because facilities did not exist for a transfer from one property to another which would meet their needs. I believe that we should make inquiries into prices and costings, because I have a growing feeling that in many cases the discovery would be made that the prices charged for materials used in the production of houses are unreasonably high. In Bradford, where we have a need of 15,000 houses, this problem requires an approach which will give the necessary number of habitations in the shortest possible time. To build 650 houses means a capital outlay of over£1 million. Therefore, to meet the local need, a sum of not less than£20 million is required. This stupendous figure forces me to make the proposal which I did a few moments ago. All hon. Members will agree that the need is urgent, and that therefore we must explore every avenue which will provide the accommodation so urgently required. Small yet suitable accommodation shall be within the limits of the purse of the ordinary man. The Conservative cry that we should let the builders build is rather hollow, because many of them secured contracts from local authorities and were months and months before laying a brick. Indeed, some local authorities had to take the matter up with the builders and advise them that certain action would follow if the work was not completed in a reasonable time. I am sure the Minister realises the supreme task of providing those in need with reasonable accommodation at rents which ordinary people can afford to pay. I should now like to make one or two comments about the textile industry. I have received complaints from the Bradford constituency which I have the honour to represent that new textile machinery is being exported, for the obvious purpose of getting the raw materials and foodstuffs so absolutely necessary to this country. I find, however, that quite a traffic is now going on in selling over and over again old machinery, which is fetching very high prices. Whilst I am not unmindful of the conditions attaching to trade with the Western Hemisphere, I feel that consideration might be given, as soon as circumstances permit, to allowing an increasing quantity of textile machinery for use in the home market, thus giving aid to increased production, which is the desire of His Majesty's Government. We must endeavour to give our textile operatives in Bradford those aids in production which will enable textiles to be produced in ever-increasing quantities, and thus enable them to play their part in general economic development.
