gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would like to take up a point made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Moray and Nairn (Mr. G. Campbell) relating to 100 per cent. mortgages and an increase in the amount that borrowers can expect. If the hon. Gentleman would look at Clause 29 of Part II, he will see that, while we do not go to the extent of 100 per cent., we do say that the Government are prepared to guarantee excess amounts over the normal advance to the borrower and also to pay half the insurance premium for that excess amount. In the past, a borrower from an insurance company or building society who could not quite raise the amount of money needed could sometimes borrow the excess amount by paying a premium of £7 10s. per cent. If this can be done it would be a great help to would-be borrowers. This is a very sound investment for the insurance company, and the premium of £7 10s. per cent. should be good, because it is one of the few insurance risks that shows very little loss indeed. From my experience in selling insurance with house purchase, very few people who enter into an obligation to borrow money to buy a house ever fail to meet that obligation. In the area of London that I operated we found that the valuation of the house was far smaller than the price, with the result that if a person failed on his mortgage and the house was sold there was usually something like £1,000 difference between what had been advanced for it and what it was sold for. Any loss to the Treasury or the insurance company concerned would be minute. We should grant more money on this basis to would-be house purchasers. What I have not enjoyed during this debate is the division that has arisen between potential owner-occupiers and council flat occupiers. We have had discussions about subsidies given to one and  not so much to the other. It has been proven that the higher an income a person has, say £2,000, £3,000 or £10,000, then it is better for him to buy a house through the endowment mortgage scheme over 15 years or more. One does very handsomely out of it from the point of view of income tax relief. However, if one has a wage of about £15 a week, then the amount of money to be claimed back in income tax relief is very small indeed. The person who requires the relief does not get it and, to some extent, the borrower who can do without it gets even more. Part II tries to remedy this. I appreciate the efforts which have gone into attempting to find the solution and to help would-be purchasers who are of modest means. This Bill is one of great social significance, because it recognises and sets out to remove the present unfairness of our tax system with regard to house purchase and owner-occupiers. For that reason it is welcomed on this side of the House. Here I would like to convey to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Housing and Local Government and to his two Ministerial colleagues our appreciation and thanks for introducing this long-overdue reform for our consideration. It has been talked about for a long time, and people have tried to introduce legislation to help with tax relief, but nothing has been done until now. I should like to thank them for their prompt and speedy action with regard to railway land and the recent Parliamentary statement about Kidbrooke. This is relevant to many Members representing London constituencies. Railway land ranks first in many London boroughs, such as Wandsworth. If the Minister could see his way clear in the near future to releasing some railway land in Wandsworth we would do more than we are doing at present. My right hon. Friend will know that the London Borough of Wandsworth has a very high output of houses. If he would release more land we would help him to achieve his target of 500,000 houses by 1970. My hon. Friend the Member for Bermondsey (Mr. Mellish) deserves the thanks of all those overcrowded families in London. I want to deal particularly with London, because it has been hit harder than any other place by overcrowded   conditions, and all of the other things that we have experienced. We thank him for his efforts which he has put in, and which he is putting in through this Bill, to try to remedy these things. I and my hon. Friends from Wandsworth would like to see the release of more railway land so that by that means he could be helped. Quite frankly, so much has been written and said by so many people about London's housing problems in the last 15 years that one is appalled by the indifference shown by the party opposite during its 13 years of power. I say this quite determinedly. As a matter of fact that party was responsible for the worsening conditions in London during that time. In 1957 it obtained its Rent Act which aided and abetted those absentee owners who exploited every loophole in that Act and who exploited, evicted and harassed tenants in the good old Rachman style. The infamous 1957 Act led to so much movement of population in London, due mainly to the decontrol of hereditaments over rateable value of £40, which in turn led to an enormous increase in rents, that there was an actual reduction in the number of houses or flats to let in London. This was what happened in London because of the introduction of the 1957 Act. Less accommodation became available for letting in London, and that made the position far worse. This was in spite, of course, of the claim of the party opposite that that Act would lead to more places being available for rent. Such movements of population, of course, accentuated the housing shortages, and the promise that the Act would reduce or prevent shortages has been obstructed, not only because accommodation is so scarce, but also because the supply which is available, in terms of size, price and location does not meet the real needs of the situation. This statement I am making is borne out by the party opposite in the White Paper, ""Housing in England and Wales"", Cmnd. 1290 of 1961. In paragraph 55, under the heading, ""Attack on Squalid Living Conditions"", it says: One of the most acute housing problems still left is the multi-occupation by families or lodgers of many large houses designed originally for use by single families. There has been no proper conversion, and the houses are without adequate cooking or sanitary facilities for the numbers now living in them. Often as a result the houses are decaying and the living conditions are disgusting.  This is the situation we are faced with in many parts of London, particularly in areas like my own, Battersea and Wandsworth. The Tories were in power from 1951 to 1964. It took them 10 years to learn this lesson, to realise that multi-occupation was a living abscess on the face of London. These living conditions also led people into delinquency. Paragraph 58 of that White Paper said: The Government want to see an attack on the squalid living conditions to be found in these houses which are not only bad in themselves but may also breed delinquency and crime. This is what happened in London in 13 years of Tory rule. While, of course, I do not say that these conditions are the sole cause of delinquency and crime, there is no doubt that children and adults suffering under these conditions do not enjoy the same opportunities of other members of the society. The opposite party's record in housing, and on the provision of housing for these families, was negligible through its long period of 13 years in power. If one looks at the graph in the White Paper, that enables one to see that it was the deliberate intention of the party opposite to reduce the number of places to let and to increasee the number of places for sale. If we examine this graph we see that the Tory Party was responsible for these conditions in London. The average number of houses built by the Tories during the whole of its period in office—
