gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech early in the life of this Parliament. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Dick Douglas, for his diligence and hard work on behalf of the people of the constituency. Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire lies at the very heart of Scotland. It is the Scottish heartland where the Wallace and the Bruce ensured that our people would never fall prey to alien domination and that we would eventually enter this Union and this House as free and equal partners. The motto of Clackmannanshire is ""Look aboot ye"" which, translated for the benefit of Sassenach Members, broadly means ""Look around you and face the facts."" The facts today are simple. They are appropriate both to this debate on the Gracious Speech and to the political situation in which the SNP finds itself in this extraordinary Parliament. The right hon. Lady the Secretary of State for Social Services spoke movingly about social justice. There are two key Scottish factors relating to the economic arguments used by the right hon. Lady. First, Scotland has come at the back end of the queue for virtually everything since the war, under both Tory and Labour administrations. We have had the worst housing and appalling unemployment. We have had an emigration rate of 1 million people leaving since the war, which would be a scandal in any open democracy. The social consequences for the people of Scotland are severe. Secondly, we have the curious anomaly that Scotland is well on the way to generating a majority part of the United Kingdom's wealth. We have no balance of payments problem. We have one of the best export records. We have no food problem. We have vast natural resources of coal and deep water and, above all, Scottish oil. Let me say that the security for any international loans which may soon be negotiated will un-  doubtedly be Scottish oil. We believe that Scottish oil will shortly underwrite the whole economy of the United Kingdom. The avowed purpose of the party that I represent is to see a genuine return of social justice to the people of Scotland and to create in our own dear land a compassionate and a caring society where there are no great disparities of wealth or of poverty. We wholeheartedly welcome the proposals for greater social justice contained in the Gracious Speech. We welcome the rent freeze. We welcome the subsidies. We welcome the increase in pensions and social services, the concern shown by the right hon. Lady for the Health Service, the proposals for the redistribution of wealth and for the protection of the lower paid and the disabled. But we should also like Her Majesty's Government to give due consideration to Scotland and to other areas as being something of a special case. May I give several instances? It has been broadly calculated that one in five of the population of the United Kingdom lives currently on or near the poverty line. Taking account of higher unemployment lower incomes, higher food and fuel costs and the rigours of the Scottish climate, the Scottish proportion is much higher. As many as one in four Scots live on or near the poverty line. The recent report of the National Children's Bureau, ""Born to Fail"", calculates that one child in every 16 in the United Kingdom is socially disadvantaged by the combination of poor family housing and economic conditions. In South-East England the proportion is one in 47: in Scotland it is one in 10. The extent of poverty in Scotland is a national scandal. Secondly, although we welcome the proposed pension increases, in Scotland and certain other areas their value is automatically diminished. We should like Her Majesty's Government to consider an automatic supplement for such areas. In Scotland gas can cost up to 50 per cent. more than in the English Midlands; coal costs £1 per ton more; food 5p in the pound more. A recent local government survey in the West of Scotland calculates that our Scots climate leads us to use at least 11 per cent. more coal than our friends   south of the Border. Summed together, that means that the current pension for an old person in Scotland is worth between £1·20 and £1·50 less than in the Home Counties—between £2·10 and £2·35 less for a Scots old couple than for a comparable old couple in the Home Counties. As right hon. and hon. Members are well aware, the House was lobbied yesterday by members of the National Union of Students. They, too, with teachers, nurses and other lower-paid workers, fall into categories of special need. I remind hon. and right hon. Members that SNP policy is to abolish discretionary awards and to make all grants mandatory, to end the parental means test, to increase the main rate of grant for all students and ensure that it is tied to the cost of living, and to end discrimination against married women students. A brief speech such as this can indicate only a few of our social attitudes. We shall attempt to achieve what we can within the House, but we naturally feel that we can achieve greater benefits for our people if we are given a Scottish Assembly with fiscal powers. That is the heart of the matter. I believe we can achieve more for the Scottish people within five years in a Scottish Parliament than in 25 or 30 years of heartbreaking struggle in the British House of Commons"". The words are not mine: they are those of that late and revered Member for Glasgow, Bridgeton, Jimmy Maxton. The attitude of the Labour Party, once the party of home rule in Scotland, is the crucial element for the SNP in this Parliament. On the one hand in the Gracious Speech there is mentioned discussions on devolution for Scotland and Wales. Some of the hon. and right hon. Members from Scotland on the opposite side of the House have, we suspect, in Scots political terms gone through one of the most remarkable conversions since the light was seen on the Damascus road. On other appointments—of Lord Crowther-Hunt as a constitutional adviser to Her Majesty's Government—with the greatest respect to the noble Lord I have to say that he is a minority voice on Kilbrandon. Scotland is not Yorkshire. As Wednesday's issue of The Guardian commented:  Lord Crowther-Hunt's objections that Scotland and Wales ought not to be given political rights denied to the English regions is an irrelevance. The pressure and the sense of nationhood exist in Scotland and in Wales. That is an established fact. What is happening in Scotland is not the rise of a new party, the SNP: it is the regeneration and rebirth of a nation. Therefore we in the SNP regret to say that we are profoundly suspicious of the intention of Her Majesty's Government in this matter. We have no indication of support for those excellent proposals put forward by the hon. Member for South Ayrshire (Mr. Sillars). There is to be more talk apparently—some of us would say more havers and blathering—but no action. On the issue of self-government, no one can save both his faces for long before his credibility runs out. What the SNP wants is a clear declaration of intent about self-government. Three amendments on devolution have been tabled to the Gracious Speech by ourselves, our dear friends in Plaid Cymru and by our Liberal friends. We wholeheartedly welcome the broad proposals for greater social justice, but we believe that we shall never get genuine social justice and the creation of a compassionate, caring, egalitarian Scots society without control of our own affairs by Scots, for Scots, in Scotland.
