gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My illustrious predecessor in office, the right hon. R. H. S. Crossman, represented the greater part of my constituency for more than a quarter of a century. During that time he occupied with distinction many of the great offices of state. Retirement from the House will mean for him not rustication but a redirection of his energies and ideas. I hope that he will long be spared to provide us with the ideas—sometimes controversial—which lie has expressed over the years. Coventry, North-East, which I have the honour to represent, is a compact constituency of 64,000 electors, more concerned with industry than with agriculture but greatly involved in the pricing policy. There is a widespread assumption, shared even by some of my colleagues, that to be sent to Coventry is a passport to affluence. I wish it were so, but my experience and a recent survey taken in the constituency reveal that many people have wages and incomes well below the national average. The projected rent increases were regarded by them with apprehension, and they are relieved by the immediate steps taken to halt rent increases and restrain price inflation. I hope, in addition, that regard is had to mortgage interest rates. The local authority in Coventry has taken major initiatives in acting as a watchdog on prices and in the giving of mortgages when the national building societies have practically shut up shop for the provision of first mortgages. Within the boundaries of North-East Coventry there are factories producing man-made fibres, units of the car industry and machine tools, and there are also industrial estates. I have noted with concern the shrinkage of a major machine tool firm. Designs are produced in Coventry but the machines are produced   abroad. There seems to be greater interest in an agency than in domestic production, and engineering generally is recruiting insufficient apprentices to replace the existing labour force. Such concentrations of industry bring problems in achieving a balance between the need for industry and a reasonable environment for people living adjacent to it, although I have not met any constituents who want to solve that problem by three-day working. Finally, I welcome the repeal of the Industrial Relations Act. As a former shop steward I know from experience that legislation on industrial relations only bedevils the situation. It provides a paradise for lawyers and frustration for workers and management. I welcome the progressive measures contained in the Gracious Speech and I believe that the country will wish to see the legislation carried through.
