gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The timidity I naturally feel in making my first speech in the House of Commons is considerably lessened by the fact that it follows so soon on the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Bournemouth, West (Mr. John Eden). I found that speech very pessimistic and though I shall try, as far as possible, to be non-controversial, perhaps I may be permitted in some slight measure to comment on its content if not on its tone. I thought that the hon. Member was very gloomy. Certainly in looking at the world today there are many factors which could lead one to a gloomy outlook, but for myself I would prefer to present a rather more optimistic picture. Though very many disastrous things have happened to us, we have reached the stage—as I do not think has happened before—where there is an appreciation of the problem. We are at least beginning to understand the real nature of the problem of eliminating war and of bringing the nations together into permanent and willing co-operation. When one knows that a problem exists, one has taken a long stride towards its solution. That is to be seen in many fields. At one time the methods of tackling such diseases as plague included incantations, blood-letting, and waving burnt pieces of paper. That showed no understanding of the problem and could not possibly offer a solution, but when disease began to be linked with sanitation, pure water and the existence of microbes, the back of the problem was already broken. The same was true of the problem of poverty. Until quite recently one could say that the bulk of people would have thought of poverty as something in the very bones of nature and society; that its cause was to be found in the nature of man himself, in his improvidence, and even perhaps in his tendency towards excessive fertility.  Here were factors outwith man's control, and therefore this problem of poverty could not be eliminated. I believe that certainly on this side of the Committee we have grasped the solution to the problem of poverty. We understand that it can be solved through the collective, determined, planned effort of society—what we generally regard as Socialism. I believe that that is the solution. Certainly hon. Members opposite would agree that we are no longer justified in thinking that poverty cannot be eliminated from mankind. We concern ourselves with the fact that millions of people are starving. Mankind has always been faced with starvation, and while men were not concerned with that in the past, we are greatly concerned about it now. Because we are concerned about the problems of starvation, poverty, disease and war, we are well on the road towards their solution. I recognise that the times in which we live are immensely dangerous, that we are equipped with the means of destroying ourselves. I recognise, too, how difficult it is to bring the nations together so that they may work peaceably and in co-operation. But while I recognise the immense gulf which separates men in many respects nevertheless we have cause for reasonable hope that, as we are on the way to solving these other major problems, so we are today in a fair way of solving the problem of war. When I recall the events of Korea, I do not think that enough has been made of the fact that, while it was impossible to prevent the outbreak of war there, nevertheless the efforts to confine the war to Korea were successful. I think this was a remarkable achievement, the importance of which escaped many people. It may be said that wars in the past have been confined to small localities. But the circumstances are different. In the past armies were largely immobile, certainly compared with these times. It was a case of two armies fighting; whole nations were not involved. War was not total. Nations were not equipped with the means of spreading war as they are now. In Korea there broke out a war that involved the major countries. It meant acute suffering, certainly to one of those major countries, and because of that acute suffering immense pressure was brought upon the Administration of that country   to take wider and wider action. Yet it was possible for that war to be confined to the country of Korea. We ought to commend in the most generous manner possible the United States Government because it was they, apart from the people of Korea, who were bearing the brunt of that struggle, yet they restrained themselves in a manner which I have not known before. There are similar examples of restraint to be found. The possession of the atomic bomb and the refusal to use it, as it could have been used, indicates this same restraint, this new tendency to think beyond the immediate action. In the past, when the guns had begun to fire, there was nothing to prevent nations from going further and further. Before the 1914–18 war the mere fact of mobilisation seemingly brought into existence conditions that could not stop. But here we had an example of a nation embroiled in a war, possessing a weapon which could have been used, and yet restraining itself from using that weapon. I am not suggesting that the weapon may not be used in the future, but this is an example of the restraint which has been observed so far. There is evidence that in the minds of millions of humble people throughout the world—yellow, black and white—there is this great concern for the solution of the problem of war. Because there is this concern, I hope that we shall solve the problem and not find ourselves involved in another general war. This does not mean that we should abandon all effort and simply talk in terms of a change of heart. I am all for having people change hearts and change their points of view, but I believe, with my party, that if we are to secure and maintain the respect of other nations we must be in a position to defend ourselves. The same thing applies to other people. For example, nothing so transforms the status of a nation as the spread of political power. Nothing has so altered the white man's view of the coloured man—I use those terms in no derogatory sense—as the rise to military power of the coloured man. It may be regrettable, but we have to recognise that there can be no respect between the very strong and the very weak. The very strong can have no respect for the very weak. So long as  many people are weak and an effort is made to keep them weak, so will there remain that great difference in status. So far as men are concerned—it may be different with women—more important even than getting food to eat is the question of the respect with which they are treated by their fellow men. The working people of this country up to 100 years ago were treated as degraded beings. Then they began to rise to their feet. They acquired a power in society which put them on a par with any other section of society; and now we see how different is the attitude towards them and how respected they are because of their power. So with the people of Asia. China has now become highly respected, and so has India. We wish to see the Africans highly respected. Let us not talk so much about feeding them as helping them to achieve their aspirations and this respect which means the right to run their own countries. The fact that an immense power has grown up in Communist China is in many ways not altogether a bad thing. Communism is by no means invulnerable. It has shown fairly clearly that it possesses the means to hold down a people within a large area almost indefinitely, and prevent organisation and opposition, thereby stopping people overthrowing it. But it has shown that it cannot always do this in countries where a very strong nationalist feeling burns. Yugoslavia is a case in point. It is a small country but, because of certain favourable circumstances and a very strong nationalist feeling, which is concerned more than anything else with the interests of Yugoslavia, the Communist régime there has taken steps to get rid of the shackles which Soviet Russia sought to impose upon it. I should say that the so-called Communist bloc will remain a bloc only to the extent that we ourselves drive Communist peoples into presenting to us a common and united front. There must be innumerable, immense and deep-rooted differences between Communist China and Russia. Communist China will go her own way. We should base our policy on this fact as well as upon the other facts which I have mentioned. I want to refer to another point which was made by the hon. Member for East   Aberdeenshire (Sir R. Boothby) concerning the struggle of ideas. I mention this point last because it is more controversial than the others. The conflict in the world today is between two sets of people embroiled in different degrees, understanding world problems differently, and standing for ideals which are poles apart. The struggle is not between America and the Soviet Union, or between Capitalism and Communism. To my mind Capitalism is on the way out, in seven-league boots. The real struggle today is between those who stand for a planned society accompanied by dictatorial methods, a totalitarian planned society which is not concerned with individual human values—in which camp go the Fascists, Nazis and Communists, irrespective of the colours of their shirts—and those who stand for a planned society which will perfect democracy. In this camp we have the Socialists and the increasing number of people who are thinking along those lines. I put it to hon. Members opposite that this is the real division in the world today, and that they cannot prevent this planning from taking place; it is international as well as national. Everywhere the State is increasingly intervening in the affairs of the people. It may be possible to make it difficult to achieve this planned society and to try to turn back the clock, but to the extent to which people succeed in making it difficult or turning back the clock they will make it that much easier for the authoritarians to succeed. Although I know that this last point is one about which there will be considerable differences of opinion, I know that the Committee will extend its usual courtesy to this maiden speech of mine.
