gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with the utmost diffidence that I find myself making my first speech to this House on the subject of procedure. As the most recent Member of the House, I have been anxiously, and, I hope, diligently, endeavouring to acquire the elements of procedure, but I know that many of the hon. Members who have spoken have a wealth of knowledge and of practical experience which I shall never be able to attain. In those circumstances, my appeal for the indulgence of the House is a heartfelt one. At present, Orders of a local legislative character, which are subject to review by Parliament, may be carried through by one of two generally accepted methods. They may be carried through either by Provisional Order procedure, or by Special Order procedure. Each of these methods of procedure has certain defects, and the object of this Bill is to provide a new code of procedure which will contain the advantages and avoid the disadvantages of the two existing codes. There is really nothing in this Bill that is truly an innovation. It follows from both the existing codes, and there is at the present moment a real need for this Bill in order to deal with problems of reconstruction, and. particularly, in regard to the time factor. May I review, for a moment, the scope of the new procedure, because that, I think, in itself, would deal with a number of the points which have been taken? First, the procedure is to apply to any Order under a future Act which is described in that Act as being subject to special Parliamentary procedure. So it will be, in every case, as far as the future is concerned, for Parliament to decide whether the new procedure is to be applied or not. Secondly, the new procedure is to be applied to certain Orders under one or two Acts, which were passed in the course of last year, and, thirdly, the new   procedure may be applied to Orders under earlier Acts, but that must be done by Order in Council. It seems to me, therefore, that the control of Parliament over the delegation of legislation is firmly established, and it is left to Parliament to decide, in the light of experience, to what extent the new procedure is to be used, and it is not proposed to introduce any experimental period. Time and experience will show. Perhaps the simplest way of answering a number of the points which have been raised would be to give the House a general review of the procedure. The First Schedule, deals with proceedings preliminary to the Order being laid on the Table of the House. That is as far as England and Wales are concerned. This preliminary procedure follows closely the existing system of proceedings preliminary to the making of a Provisional Order. There is no curtailment at this stage of any private rights or interests, and the fullest consideration is given to all these matters. Then, the preliminary stage over, the Order has to lie on the Table of each House, and petitions may be presented within 14 days. The duty is cast on the Lord Chairman and the Chairman of Ways and Means to examine and decide whether these petitions are petitions for amendment, or petitions of general objection. That is a distinction which is very important, and, indeed, is fundamental to the Bill. It is intended to be a broad distinction, and a distinction in quality, but I may say that we will gladly consider any formula which would help to make that distinction clear, because there is no denying that it is a fundamental and important distinction. I also agree that that would assist the Lord Chairman and the Chairman of Committees in what may well be a difficult task of discriminating between the two types of petition. The next step is that the Chairmen—
