gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have arrived at that moment in the life of a Member of Parliament when for the first time he addresses the House. I can assure hon. Members that I do so not without some trepidation. I know—and I have already seen in fact—the courtesy which is shown to hon. Members both inside this House, and, if I may say so, outside this House. From that I have gained a good deal of confidence. It is typical of every new Member, speaking for the first time, to refer to his own division, and I feel that I cannot be any exception. I shall not give specific cases, but I must say that I have seen a good deal of the housing conditions of this country, both as a town councillor in the town of Halifax, and in my present division. I represented a ward in Halifax which I think has the greatest slum area, and, yet, when I visited Buckrose, for the first time, and began to make research into the conditions of life in the villages, I found to my horror that the conditions there were worse than any we had in the slum areas in my old town. Many of the houses, indeed all the houses, of the villages appeared to be without water, gas or electricity; many of the roofs were in very bad condition and the sanitation was deplorable. Yet people are expected to bring up large families under those conditions. I am not going to give details, because Members of this House are obviously fully aware of the situation and I do not think there is any doubt that Members on all sides wish the present Government well, in building houses at as rapid a rate as possible. This Bill makes financial provision for the extensive Government plan for rehousing, and I want to draw the attention of the Minister to one or two points, which I hope that he will bear in mind, when shaping his final policy. I looked very carefully through this Bill and I seized on Clause 6 with a very great deal of joy, as a Member of the party which I represent. Clause 6 increases from£800 to£1,200 the amount which can be loaned by the local authorities to people who desire to build privately. I do wish to say on this particular Clause something for the encouragement of private enterprise. There is no reason why a man who wants to own his own honse, should not build to this limit of£,200. I am not asking for a luxury building, because I know that the Government have wisely set their minds against that, but I am asking for support under this Clause for those who do desire to own their own houses. There is nothing to be ashamed of in owning one's own house. It is a matter of pride; and I am sure that some of the finest citizens in this country are those who have saved, so that they can own their own houses. Why I want to refer particularly to this Clause is this: For many years I sat on the housing committee of a town council, and I think that I can count on one hand the number of applications made, when the limit for building a house was£800. At the same time, throughout the country, there were great societies lending millions of money for the purposes of purchasing houses. I feel that, through the Press and in other ways, ex-Servicemen should be acquainted with the fact that there is in this Clause provision whereby a man can borrow money from the local authority to build his own house. My special interest in this is because I feel that unless this Clause is utilised, the full building capacity of this country will not be utilised. I am informed that there are 80,000 builders in the country—I agree that a lot of those are probably small working builders, but they are all very expert craftsmen—and I feel that if during the next two years the Government were to direct the whole or most of the building through the local authorities, the only people who would be able to contract for these large schemes would be the large building contractors. If that is so, a good deal of the labour and the skill of these thousands of small builders will not be utilised to the full. I plead on this occasion for the Government to bear in mind that, if they are to make a real success of this building programme, they must utilise everybody in the building trade; and under this Clause, I feel, judging by the speeches which have so far been made by the Government, that they are excluding thousands of small builders. Although this money could be borrowed under Clause 6 from the local authority, whether this money is utilised or not will depend to a certain extent upon the rate of interest. I would like to see the Government lending money to municipal authorities free of charge. These loans are paper transactions, and one must remem-   ber that the greatest cost in a house prior to the war was not the labour, not the goods that were used in its construction, but in the interest charged. With a house costing£500 built on money loaned at 5 per cent, over 40 years, the total interest charge would be equal to the original cost of the house. I do not see any reason why the Government should not lend money to the authorities free of interest, and then charge a small rate, say i per cent., to those people who want to build their own houses. I do hope that when the Government finally establish their policy, they will bear in mind the two points to which I have drawn their attention—to publicise as much as they can Clause 6 of the Bill, to bring down interest rates on loans to the lowest possible point, and down to nothing at all for municipal authorities. The housing question is the most important task of the Government, and if they do succeed—and I hope they will, and I believe that Members on all sides of the House hope they will—then there will not be any difficulty about the next election. If they fail, they will bring the greatest disaster and social unrest to this country that it has ever known. They are definitely on trial more on this particular question than on any other.
