gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Much has been said this afternoon about the atom bomb, and its shadow may be said to have descended upon the whole of this evening's proceedings. Indeed, its shadow now spreads over the whole world, but, at the same time, life goes on in that shadow, and life will continue to go on. When our Prime Minister goes to America, his discussion will range not only over the subjects of atomic energy and the atomic bomb, but over a much wider area. Because of that, I seek in my intervention into this Debate to narrow this subject down to something on a smaller scale. Whilst agreement is always easy on general principles, international conferences and meetings of the Big Three have, in the past, proved that the test really comes on the translation of those general principles into actualities and hard facts, and transferring them into practical measures in the international field. I want to ask the Prime Minister, when he is discussing matters with the President of the United States, to pay attention to a point on which agreement has been reached between them, if not by speaking man to man, then in pronouncements made in this House and in the equivalent House in America, and pronouncements on which have been made by representatives of people in both countries. I refer to the question of Spain. Agreement has been reached between peoples of all democratic nations on the detestation and hatred of the present situation in Spain. Agreement has been reached between the leaders of both sides of this House on that question too, and, even in this Parliament, the character of which has changed completely during the last few months, there are very few indeed who are willing to avow themselves as the friends of Franco. There is no need at this stage to argue the case against the present régime in Spain, nor to emphasise how the existence of this Nazi and Fascist hide-out must be a menace to democracy and peace all over the world. In my constituency of Winchester, several years ago, we had the honour and privilege of welcoming and extending hospitality to 4,000 Basque children brought over to this country as the first mass evacuation of refugees from a Fascist-invaded country, refugees from Fascist aggression and the indiscriminate bombing of civilians. We, and the rest of Europe, later experienced that suffering ourselves, and in the various districts of my constituency, Eastleigh, Chandlers Ford and Southampton which extended that hospitality proudly and generously to those child refugees, they are watching the conduct of Spain, because their sympathy is still keen and alive on that subject, and they hope that this House will very soon do something about it. President Truman, in the course of his 12 points to which reference has been made, did deal with the subject on which I am now speaking. Point 2 says: We believe in the eventual return of sovereign rights and self-government to all peoples who have been deprived of them by force. Point 4 says: Al1 peoples who are prepared for self-government should be permitted to choose their own form of government by their own freely expressed choice. Point 5 says: We shall try to attain a world in which Nazism, Fascism and military aggression cannot exist. Point 6 says: We shall refuse to recognise any government imposed on any nation by force by any foreign power. I submit that all this applies definitely to the present régime in Spain, and on that basis joint action of a speedy character can be taken in full co-operation between   our Government and that of the United State. Action can be taken on the diplomatic field by demanding the release of political prisoners from the camps and prisons in Spain which are very like those which existed in Nazi Germany before our acts of liberation, and also by taking care to see that those who are classed as criminal prisoners in Spain are not there really on political grounds and falsely classed as criminals. We can demand free elections in Spain, and we can withdraw our recognition of the Franco Government and establish diplomatic relations with the Cortes at present meeting in Mexico, encouraging it in exactly the same way as we did the De Gaulle Government which was set up outside the territory of France. We can take action jointly in full co-operation on the economic too, by severing trade relations and by refusing to bolster up foreign trade with Franco Spain. A few days ago I was amazed to see that petrol was being shipped into Spain in larger quantities—petrol which was going to allow the petrol ration of individuals in Spain to be increased, while we in this country are going short of petrol for essential needs. That is a matter on which I would like our Government to take action, and in full co-operation with the American Government action can be taken. During the years immediately preceding the late war we contracted a number of ""debts of honour"" in various countries in international affairs. We stood aloof while China, Abyssinia, Czechoslovakia and Spain suffered from Nazi and Fascist aggression, and we bear a heavy responsibility for those days. All those claims and burdens on our conscience are now cleared in China, Czechoslovakia and Abyssinia, but not yet in Spain, and we have now the opportunity of clearing our conscience on that last final bastion of Fascism in Europe. I am well aware of the sympathy of His Majesty's Government on this question, which has been expressed over and over again, but sympathy is not enough, and the time has now come when action is needed to bring freedom to the remaining victims of Fascism in Europe. There Fascism was being fought, while Members of this House and other people in this country and other countries were being deluded by the menace of Fascism, thinking it  was friendly to the interests of democracy and of this country, and allowing themselves to be led astray by those beliefs. Those days have passed, and I hope that very soon, as a result of an agreement between the Prime Minister and the President of the United States, Franco Spain will pass too.
