gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise, with diffidence and at long last, to address this Assembly for the first time. I shall confine my very brief maiden effort to an attempt to break down this great subject of the Army Estimates to a very small level. I want to break it down, in the few minutes I have, to the private, the unpaid acting-corporal, and the corporal. I have thought that discussions in the House of Commons on Army matters very rarely took the right point of view of the men in the lower ranks. I was very pleased however to hear the Secretary of State for War introduce the Army Estimates today. I noticed his outline of the future of the Army, giving great promise for all those who believe that there has been a great deal wrong in the administration of the Army in the past, especially as affecting the lower ranks. I want to make some reference to my own experience in the Army during the war and to the experience of hundreds of men, who, like myself were called up, at the time when the nation needed us most, to play our  part in the Armed Forces. We had to make a complete change in our mode of living, and in our general attitude towards many problems which faced us. When I went into the Army I was prepared, diffident and anxious as I was about the future, and wondering whether I should come out of it alive, to do my best in the strange new occupation which I had undertaken. I was absolutely amazed and astounded at the response I received from the Army. All the good spirit was knocked out of me in very quick time, when, one miserable morning in April, we arrived at the depot in Yorkshire. We were met by a tall sergeant, who had been an inspector of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals before the war. After we had walked up and down from the village hall, which was in a disused chapel, to the quartermaster's stores and the orderly room, a distance of some 12 miles, a number of the men collapsing under the weight of their kit bags and uniforms, the sergeant gathered us round him. In friendly fashion he said: '' Some of you may have held good positions until you joined the Army, but whatever you were before the war, let me tell you you are rubbish here."" The word was not ""rubbish."" It is difficult to discuss Army matters without falling into Army terms. I think all men with Army service will understand exactly the word that was used. I felt pretty shocked. I thought that was not the way to treat men who were being dragged, somewhat reluctantly in many cases, from their civilian lives. I have never quite agreed with the expression ""join the Army."" It hardly describes the emotion which some of us felt when called up. I felt that it was not the way to treat such men. My suspicions were confirmed as the days wore on and the weary nights followed each other in miserable succession. I was appalled, all the time I underwent training in the Army, at the stupidity and the lack of understanding with which N.C.O.s and officers handled the men in their charge. I could give this Committee, as could no doubt any man who was in the Army, instances of stupid brutality which I have myself witnessed, of officers and N.C.O.s bullying men in order to get something done, but having precisely the opposite effect. How many of us who have been in the Services, have not been given the responsibility of finding fatigues for men to do? We would discover Private So-and-so round the back of the cookhouse with a broom; every time an N.C.O. came along he was busy, but as soon as the N.C.O.'s back was turned Private So-and-so would lean up against the cookhouse wall to have a smoke. It is only because of the methods that have been adopted of controlling men during the war. There has been set up an enormous amount of friction, which has resulted in the reduction of the man-hour output of the average soldier. I remember one commanding officer at an establishment in Lincolnshire who put this notice on the orderly room notice board:  The playing of musical instruments in parade hours is forbidden. ' Musical instrument ' includes whistling and singing. Three days later, five sergeants were put on a charge for whistling while they were going about their duties. The same officer, a full colonel, put his dog on seven days C.B. with bread and water, for misbehaving itself. That man was a colonel in the British Army. On another occasion, an adjutant at one battalion where I was stationed called the N.C.Os. into his office and said, ""N.C.Os., I am very disappointed with the way you are handling the men. I am not getting enough men to punish. If you bring 50 men before me every morning I shall be happy."" Speaking to one N.C.O. he said: ""You have been an N.C.O. for nine months. During that period you have not brought one single man before me for punishment."" I could instance dozens of cases like that. A regimental sergeant major was up against one of the men, and he and the adjutant concocted a plot. The man was ordered to appear before the adjutant and the adjutant said, ""Take your hat off. Throw it on the floor."" They then put the man on a charge for being improperly dressed in the presence of the officer. From that day that man went from bad to worse. He had period of detention after period of detention, until his life became one long tragedy of misspent intelligence, because of the stupidity and sadistic tendencies of some of the people who had charge of men in the Forces. I well remember at an operators training battalion in Yorkshire, a squad of men were passing out as radio operators. Because of the necessity of producing radio operators with the minimum of delay, in view of the great shortage in that class of tradesman at that time, they were urged to pass their examinations in the shortest possible time. Glowing promises of leave were offered to them if they did their best, and got through their examinations in the minimum possible time. Those men finished their examinations in record time; 100 per cent passed. What happened? Immediately, the regimental sergeant major put the whole lot on to scrubbing the floor of a disused woollen mill, which had not been scrubbed for anything from 50 to 100 years. The regimental sergeant major went round later and accused the N.C.O. in charge of not driving the men fast enough. They were not getting on fast enough with the scrubbing of the floor. That may be small stuff, but it is the life of the common soldier in camp. It is the kind of thing the men experience from morning till night, from the time reveille sounds, and an unsympathetic corporal or sergeant pokes him in the ribs and tells him to get up, till last post, when all men are expected to be in bed. Unless the Secretary of State for War devises a system which will prevent all this sadistic bullying of men, this stupid lack of comprehension of the ordinary man's rights as a citizen, we shall not get the best out of our Army. There are many reasons why men will not stay in the Army. There are many reasons why men will not join the Army. This is one of the reasons: the soldier in the lower ranks cannot retain his self-respect. I lost a great deal of my self-respect when I was in the Army, and, heaven knows, with my training as a politician I was pretty familiar with the way to get round the rules of the Army. As things are, it is impossible for the man in the lower ranks to retain the self-respect to which he is entitled as a citizen of the British Empire. The difference between the man and the officer is the difference between dirty blankets and clean sheets which are changed by someone else. It is the difference between a canteen with chairs and beer, and a mess with tablecloths and whisky. The men have tin mugs and tin plates, and march along the   street in squads, looking like criminals, to a not very clean dining room in many cases. Of course, I am talking about barrack conditions, not conditions in the field, about which one cannot legislate. There is a vast difference in those conditions, which I agree are exceptional. Men coming from decent homes, whether they were working class, middle class, or upper class, in the economic sense, were treated like slaves in the Army. Whereas, those who were officers received a measure of treatment and a measure of comfort which set them apart from the rest of the men to a much greater extent than was necessary. That caused jealousy and hatred amongst the lower ranks. I believe the trouble is in the question of the choice of personnel. I think the Secretary of State for War and all those concerned with him will have to devise a means whereby superior types of N.C.Os., warrant officers and officers can be chosen. The N.C.O. who gets men to obey him merely by saying, ""Do this or else—"" the warrant officer who adopts the same method, and the officer in command who is not concerned with the welfare of his men, are types which ought to be got rid of at the earliest possible moment. Part of the trouble is a relic from the attitude which the whole nation took towards the Army in the years between the wars. We did not attract a good type to the Army, consequently men who were lance-corporals and corporals when the war began, who subsequently became warrant officers and officers during the war, were not necessarily the best types of men. It is extremely important that the question of the selection of the right types of men for N.C.Os. is dealt with very comprehensively by those concerned. I hope (the Secretary of State for War is going to abolish the unpaid local ranks. What more pathetic object is there in the whole of the British Army than the unpaid acting lance-corporal? I do hope that the Secretary of State for War is going to abolish at least the unpaid acting post. The poor wretch is dragged from the ranks and forced to take charge over men with whom formerly he had close contact, without any pay, without any real responsibility, and with certainly no sympathy from those over whom he is supposed to exert authority. Without  going into details, or the reasons for abolishing these unpaid ranks, I hope the Secretary of State has made up his mind that that sweated labour part of the British Army shall be abolished. It is said that we must have some opportunity of finding out whether men are suitable persons to hold disciplinary posts in the Army. I suggest that a probationary period of three months would determine whether a man is suitable to be an N.C.O. or not. One other thing I would like to mention from my own experience during the war. I found that a number of commanding officers were very good at ignoring Army Council instructions when they referred to the welfare of the men. In my view Army Council instructions speaking in general terms of the condition of the men, ought to be compulsory and not obligatory. While I agree that it may be essential, in some respects, to leave certain aspects of Army Council instructions to the responsibility of the commanding officer, I think those Army Council instructions which deal with the welfare of the men ought to be compulsory, and it should not be possible for a commanding officer to ignore them in the way that that was done during the war. Another thing which varies very considerably, is the food of the men in the Army. It is very often found that there are one or more cooks in the men's mess, different cooks for the sergeant's mess, and for the officer's mess, varying of course in degree of skill. Why should the private or the lance-corporal eat inferior food, as compared with the officers? Why should it be less well cooked or less carefully prepared merely because it is for privates and corporals and not for officers? All the food in the Army should be prepared in one cookhouse, and then if there was anything wrong with it, the cooks would very soon hear from the officers, and the privates would benefit. As a Socialist I was very badly impressed by the manifest class differences which existed in the Army during the war. We had in the Army, relics of feudalism and of the 19th century attitude to the common soldier. Although the civilian has advanced in dignity and status, the soldier in the Army remains where he was in the 19th century. I hope the Secretary of State for War will pay the very closest attention to the welfare of the P.B.I.
