gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech, I would pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. John Brewis, for his quiet unobstrusive work in the constituency which is remembered by many of his constituents. Mr. Brewis was a Gallovidian by adoption and by choice. I am a Gallovidian by necessity, because I was born there. But I venture to think that, if I had been consulted beforehand, I should still have chosen to be born a Gallovidian. I could praise Galloway, and I am bound to praise Galloway, for many reasons, but I can mention only a few tonight. Galloway is called the cradle of Scottish Christianity because Ninian came to Whithorn in the fourth century to preach the gospel there to the British tribes which then inhabited Galloway. Galloway is also called the cradle of Scottish independence, because in the fourteenth century came Robert the Bruce who in 1307 began in Glentrool the campaign which he was to bring to a successful conclusion at Bannockburn seven years later. So it is small wonder if I welcome the Gracious Speech where it speaks of directly elected assemblies for Scotland and for Wales. In the seventeenth century Galloway was torn by the religious wars of the period, but today Galloway is a place of peace and relative quiet. I ought to praise the landscape of Galloway with its rich diversity ranging from the high hills of the Stewartry of  Kirkcudbright, across the undulating plain of the Machars of Wigtown, with the Moors reaching up to the Ayrshire boundary behind the Machars and then across in the far west to the green hills of the Rhinns which look across to Ireland and Kintyre, reminding us in Galloway that we once belonged to that Gaeldom which stretched from the south of Ireland to the north of the Western Isles. Galloway, then, is a microcosm of Scotland; but lest it be thought by hon. Members that Galloway is a little paradise without a flaw this side of heaven I shall mention certain matters which exercise the minds of my constituents in these days. First, I refer to agriculture, because the prosperity of our ancient province depends upon the prosperity of the agricultural community. At the moment, the agricultural community has fallen between two stools, because one administration removed the old support system and the next administration failed to implement the new. It is said in the Gracious Speech that there will be discussions with the farming industry"". I suggest that the time for discussion is past and the time for action has come. Then I should touch upon rural depopulation. I was formerly a teacher and aware that many of my pupils, especially the boys, had to leave Galloway to find work. I hope that some of the revenue from North Sea oil will be used to revitalise industry in the rural areas. I welcome therefore the mention in the Gracious Speech of the establishment of a development agency in Scotland and trust that Galloway will benefit from this agency. I am bound to mention the A75, which runs in the constituency from Dumfries to Stranraer. The A75 does duty both for itself and for the railway which formerly ran between the same two towns. We welcome the traffic going to and from Ireland because the prosperity of Stranraer and the surrounding area depends so much upon it. But we should also welcome by-passes round the centres of population on the A75. During the election campaign I stayed in an hotel in Glenluce into which a juggernaut lorry had run by crossing the road and mounting the pavement. As the proprietress said, she had no objection to people   coming in for refreshment but she preferred them to come in by the door. Finally, I should like to mention the matter about which my constituents have written to me most, namely, television reception. In my home village I have no television set because the reception is so abominable that it is not worth having. That means that constituents in my native village do not even get a look at me on the occasions when I appear on the television. Indeed, I cannot get a look at myself. There are other areas which receive only BBC and ITV television from Ulster. This means that the party political broadcasts for my party, which are allegedly beamed to the whole of Scotland, do not reach those areas. May I urge any hon. Member who has not yet visited Galloway to lose no time in doing so and to share with us, even for a short time, the peace and unhurried attitude to time that we have in Galloway.
