gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my first speech as a Member. I believe that the eager anticipation with which this country awaited the Gracious Speech from the Throne on this occasion may fairly be described as one of gleeful anticipation on the one hand, and of the most fearful foreboding on the other. I feel that both expectations have been  amply fulfilled. There will be deep-seated satisfaction throughout the land of my fathers that special reference has been made in the Gracious Speech to the Principality of Wales. Wales has made a very special contribution to the titanic struggle from which this nation is now emerging triumphant, and she has every claim upon this House for special consideration in the days that will follow after the war. I notice that, in the Gracious Speech, we are linked with Scotland, and of that we will not complain, but we hope to have a promise from the Government that equality of status shall now be given to the Principality of Wales. Particularly, we have in mind the question of a Secretary of State for Wales. There is, on this side of the House, I know, and I hope throughout the House among Members from the Principality, unanimity in appealing to the Government to consider this question of a Secretary of State for Wales. There are other questions with which every Welsh Member will be very vitally concerned. As I look to the Address, I see that the Government are going to try to settle the economic problems of the Principality. After the last war, Wales suffered, perhaps more than any other part of this country, owing to a crude economic system, and, while our basic economic needs are the same as for the island as a whole, while we want work, food and homes, none the less, there are certain special problems to which we will direct the attention of the House. In Wales, we have a large proportion of our people who are rejected from the coal mines owing to silicosis and pneumoconiosis—two dreadful diseases which ravage the people of South Wales—and we ask that when a man is rejected by industry owing to industrial disease, some other employment shall be provided for him and that he shall be found a means of employment which will give him a chance to be a citizen in the full sense of the term. It is my privilege to represent the Central Division of the first City of Wales Cardiff, as the House will know, has suffered badly as an exporting centre because of the decline of the coalmining industry. During the war, Cardiff has been an importing centre. A large cold storage plant was established which enabled the port to serve the whole of the Western part of this country. We ask that the Government shall give serious consideration to   the question of re-establishing Cardiff as an importing as well as an exporting centre for the West Country. I would now like to say a word about housing. Reference was made by the right hon. Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) to the fact that housing is urgent in the rural areas. It is grimly urgent in the blitzed areas, and I represent a city which has suffered owing to the ravages that came from the skies. In Cardiff, in 1939,there were over 8,000 families waiting for homes, which uncontrolled private enterprise had been unable to provide for them. Those 8,000 families could be trebled at the present time, and I ask the Government to make sure that this drive for housing shall indeed be fulfilled. There is a confidence that the dynamic personality of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan) in this office will mean that we shall indeed see results. I am confident that this Address, promising a larger degree of public ownership than we have had before, promising central purchasing of the commodities necessary for housing, will indeed meet the needs of the people. One last word upon a subject which is not especially confined to Wales, and that is the question of the old age pensioners. In Wales, as indeed throughout this island country, we have a section of our community who should be honoured but who have endured a means test in the autumn of their lives. I hope that the National Insurance Bill which is about to be introduced will ensure that every consideration is given to provide real security for the old members of the community.
