gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to speak, since the attention paid to my constituency recently has brought forward to the public eye the issues of the inner city areas. Moss Side represents the inner city problem well. I first record my respect for my predecessor. Having worked with him for some years, I know what a valiant and dedicated man Frank Hatton was. It is a matter of deep regret that his service in this House was so short. In that time, by his diligence and humanity he earned the respect and affection of many people in the constituency and elsewhere. In the past few weeks I have been told by large numbers of his constituents of their appreciation, and I endorse their feelings. As a councillor, and as a Member of this House, Frank Hatton represented the inner area of Manchester for over 20 years. During that time he saw large areas totally rebuilt. While housing and physical conditions have greatly improved, there remain particular problems of poverty and unemployment. The falling population of the city of Manchester has caused a concentration in the city of families in need. In two wards of the constituency over 50 per cent. of the families are below the poverty line. For this reason, I welcome the opportunity given by this Bill and by the inner city partnership to revive the inner areas of Manchester and increase the number of jobs. Inner cities are unpredictable and the people of Moss Side surprised some people last week. Visitors to the constituency from the press and elsewhere   have presented the difficulties of part of the area as a major insoluble problem of the whole. I consider this to be inaccurate and damaging to the people who live in the constituency. There is no doubt that some new housing has caused problems. Some deck access accommodation has proved unsuitable for families, but these problems are being tackled. Unsatisfactory houses in parts of the area will not be improved by labelling the whole district a disaster area. This denigration of the district is much resented by the many people there who are struggling to create a new community. Moss Side is a constituency of contrasts, containing prosperous suburbs as well as inner area poverty. It is a lively part of the city and contains one of the largest sectors of higher education in the country. The strength of the area can be seen in the schools, where children's work is exciting and substantial. This is to the credit of the determination of the city council, and particularly of my predecessor in his time there, in building new schools and providing excellent staffs and equipment. For many decades, Moss Side has accepted immigrant groups from any parts of the world. One of the most admirable aspects of the constituency is the great tolerance and understanding in which people live and work together as neighbours. We are proud of our record as a multiracial community, but we are aware of the danger of complacency. The high unemployment among school leavers bears particularly heavily on young black people. Many of them feel that they are rejected because of the colour of their skin. They lose confidence and it is hard to persuade them that they are suffering from the defects of the economic system. They will be persuaded only by effective measures to create employment. The Bill will create job opportunities in such areas. The opportunity that we have in expanding the Bill in this way to provide co-operative ventures is appropriate to an area where the community needs much greater development. The need in all aspects of a newly developed area is for the community to be developed, for people to work together and for them to work with the local coun-  cil and central Government. I therefore welcome the amendment.
