gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In asking for the usual indulgence that the House extends to maiden speakers, I know that hon. Members will sympathise with me in that I have to follow many speeches of great sincerity, and, I might say, some of a certain amount of obscurity. To my mind, the immediate benefits that we are to receive as a result of this loan, whether I approve of it ultimately or not, is the return to multilateral trade. Undoubtedly, if the world is to get going on a business basis once more, we have to have free communications and commerce between the nations of the world, and particularly must we have a free ex change. We all know the difficulties the German nation got into before the war when they were playing around with blocked currencies which we, under all circumstances, must try to avoid. If we are agreed that the pound sterling must be linked to something, whether it is to be the dollar or gold in some form or other, I think we will also agree that other countries are not prepared at the present time that it must necessarily be linked to the policy of the Socialist Party, because if we agree to that it may not be worth 10s. or 5s. but very much less. If the pound is to be maintained on nationalisation or confiscation, this is a very good reason why foreign countries will want us to be linked to the dollar or gold, so that at least they can get something back while the going is good. It is natural that these countries look with envy at the high standard of living which obtains in the United States of America. Many of us who have been overseas during this war have felt what an enormous advantage it would be to the trade of the world if the purchasing power of some of the countless millions of populations in the countries in which we have been could be increased by £5 or even £10 per head. Therefore, the prospects of opening up world inter national trade as a result of this loan, will be of inestimable benefit to us all. But are we certain that the hopes ex pressed in these proposals for an inter national conference on trade and employment will, in fact, be fulfilled? It appears to us, and it has been confirmed by what we have heard this afternoon; that they are totally incompatible with the Socialist totalitarian policy which we believe is going to be brought about in this country. I believe that the whole economic structure we had before the war would be able to adapt itself to the changing conditions in the world to day, but I am far from sure that it will be able to do so under the present Government, which I consider is sapping the moral fibre of the nation. No loan, however big, can save this country un less once more we can get our industries on their feet and give our people the tools to do the job. I think that British products can compete in any market in the world, but if we are to carry on with restrictive practices, with working par ties which produce no work, we have little chance of recapturing these markets for which we all hope. Let us have the work and let us have the parties at some later stage. I am sorry, when I turn to the question of agriculture, that the Minister of Agriculture himself cannot answer many of the queries we would like to put to him. I am far from happy at the situation in which we shall find ourselves as a result of the agreements we may enter into in the future. Are we going to be able to carry out even the Government's five-year agricultural policy? I do not think we have had all the assurances we should have liked from the President of the Board of Trade in what he told us just now. Will we be able to give direct subsidies to our producers in this country? Will that not be looked upon with disfavour  by other countries in the world? Are we going to be permitted to increase our pre war standards of production, and, at the same time, comply with any agreements into which we may have entered? We have been told that heavy subsidies will be permitted, but I am not entirely happy at the assurances we have been given. I am sorry the Minister of Agriculture did not tell us these things him self. I am sorry he is not sitting in his place at the present time. During the weekend he must have been most un easy on this matter because, when speaking in the North of England, he referred to this loan as ""a pawnbroker's loan."" Is that the view of His Majesty's Government? They have not called it so today. The hon. Member for Doncaster (Mr. Walkden) called it a stern, harsh measure, and also referred to it as a ""pawnbroker's loan."" If these ideas were in the mind of the Minister of Agriculture when he used that term, I am led to believe that his reaction was that he would not be able to carry out the policy which he told us some days ago was the Government's plan. Is he going to welcome this loan and this Motion on which we are to vote tomorrow? We may be asked on this side of the House, What is our alternative? I believe that if a Conservative Government had been in power, if we had had the same Prime Minister as we had during the years of the war, any loan agreement would have been very much more satisfactory from the point of view of this country. I do not say it would necessarily be because of the policy we were going to pursue, but because our Ministers would be far superior in their knowledge of Americans and of trade than those who have carried out the negotiations. I feel that the Prime Minister, when he went to Congress the other day, did a great disservice to this country in his vain attempts to try to sell Socialism to the American people. I read his speech once more only a few hours ago, and I realised what a grave abuse his remarks were of the hospitality that country was extending to him. They are not a country that is misinformed, and they pride themselves on having a great knowledge of what goes on in the world. It is customary in this House at the present time to decry our tremendous trading efforts in the past. If ever this country needed captains of   industry to get the country going again so as to recapture some of the trade we have lost, it is now. We do not want our business to be run by a lot of milk-bar monopolists, or Bloomsbury bankers; we want people who know the job. I welcome the assurance we have been given that the American nation will be prepared to reduce her own tariffs. I believe this country can hold her own in any market in the world where the trading is fair trading. All I would say about this loan offers a slight breathing space in the chaos to which the present Government arc leading us.
