gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House on rising to make my maiden speech. My reason for intervening in this Debate is that I have had some experience while acting as a representative on one of the regional boards dealing with this matter. I reinforce the appeals that have been made to the President of the Board of Trade to give more power to the regional boards in dealing with this matter of derequisitioning. Personally, I have no complaints whatever regarding the recent regional changes and developments in the Board of Trade machinery. Considerable advances have been made since the regional machinery was improved and perfected by the Board of Trade. I want to urge the President of the Board of Trade to have the courage to take risks in releasing factories. It is true that there may be some articles, either wholly manufactured or partly manufactured, that might deteriorate if they were placed in the open, but I suggest it would be sound economy to take that risk. The time that is being wasted in dealing with these stores represents a greater loss to the country than any loss that would be caused by deterioration of the stores. In the North Midland region there was a large firm which had come from Coventry into Nottinghamshire. This firm ceased production over 12 months ago, but so far as I know, the factory has not yet been cleared. At one period a staff of 400 people was dealing with the distribution of the remaining goods, which had to be allocated, valued and got rid of. I suggest that if it had been possible to clear that particular factory both of manufactured products and partly manufactured products, whatever might have been lost as a result of the stored articles  going into the open or elsewhere would have been more than balanced by the saving of 400 people's time in stock-taking in a factory that had been shut down. That is the sort of thing we want to avoid. I do not think that all the blame rests with Government Departments. Obviously, when a factory is requisitioned, various structural and other alterations take place and these have to be dealt with and settled when the particular firm who have gone in have to come out and the factory is restored to its normal purpose. I am told that there are endless financial wrangles over the value of the alterations to property during the wartime period. That ought to be short circuited. I think it would be possible for some particular deciding figure to be given by the Board of Trade and the factory to be cleared, and if the figure was not satisfactory they could settle by arbitration afterwards what the financial obligation should be. To keep a factory idle because they cannot agree on the price of a wall that has been put up in order to divide the factory is foolish when we are dealing with the problem of returning quickly to postwar production. My final word is that with the reconstruction of the Regional Boards, and with the additional industrialists, other than engineers, who are now advising the Board of Trade, there ought to be the machinery and the advice to help the President of the Board of Trade to accelerate the change over from wartime to peacetime production. I urge my right hon. and learned Friend to use that machinery to the fullest extent in order to hasten the day when we shall get back from wartime to peacetime production.
