gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to second the Motion. My hon. Friend the Member for Antrim, South (Mr. Knox Cunningham), who gave me such remarkable assistance in the drafting of the Bill, moved and outlined the purpose of the Bill in a most able manner. It is seldom given to a Member of the House to have the privilege of making his maiden speech upon his own Private Member's Bill. I have that good fortune and I crave the indulgence of the House for what I have to say. As the House is aware, I represent one of the few constituencies in Northern Ireland which have no seaboard. It may therefore seem strange that I should have chosen to submit this Measure consequent upon my good fortune in the Ballot. I hope to justify my choice in the course of my observations. Firstly, although it is true that I represent an inland and mainly farming community,  it is equally true that Northern Ireland, as an integral part of the United Kingdom, is largely dependent upon sea communications for its trade and intercourse with the principal United Kingdom markets, as well as for its foreign and export trade. Northern Ireland products are carried over the seven seas to the most remote parts of the world, and upon our seaborne trade depends not only much of our livelihood but also Northern Ireland's valuable contribution to the dollar earnings of the sterling area. Likewise, in Northern Ireland we are dependent upon shipping for the import of those raw materials in which we are deficient, which are so vital to our industries and upon which depend our level of employment. Our citizens make frequent use of sea communications for visits to this country and for their business journeys to the great centres of the industrial life not only of the United Kingdom but of Europe and of the world. Secondly, there is precedent in the House for a Member who represents an inland constituency using his Private Member's Bill for matters maritime. I need only mention that the Private Member's Bill which led to the establishment of the Plimsoll Line was that of a former hon. Member for Derby, to vindicate my introduction of this Measure to the House. The Bill proposes a reform which in my view is long overdule. It has been quite fantastic that, in the past, dependants of a person killed by negligence on the part of a shipowner or his servants should have been dependent upon the size of the miscreant's ship for the measure of their damages. Such limitation of an owner's liability is contrary to common sense and alien to our sense of justice. In my view there can be no logical distinction between carriage by sea land and air which can justify a difference in the treatment accorded to dependants of the dead, or to the injured who suffer damage by the negligence of the owner of a sea-borne vessel or by the owner's crew who navigate the vessel. It has been argued that limitation of liability hitherto available has been justified by the magnitude of the inherent liability of a shipowner whose vessel   carries many passengers and, in many cases, a great quantity of cargo disproportionate to the value of the vessel. I would point out to hon. Members that here, in this City of London, on the upper deck of a double-decker omnibus, it is possible that the bus may carry twenty-six company directors whose total value in a fatal accident might well amount to over £30,000, a figure disproportionate to the value of the bus. In air and land travel there is no limitation. We are a great maritime nation. At Brussels in October, 1957, at the International Convention on Shipowners' Liability, the representatives of Her Majesty's Government agreed that the figures which I have inserted in this Bill should be substituted for those parsimonious figures now in force. Mr. Speaker, I beg to second the Motion, and I ask the House to give a Second Reading to my Bill.
