gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I on this, the occasion of my first speech in this House, crave the indulgence of the House? I do so with some diffidence, because I feel that all the indulgences granted to-day are supposed to be to shareholders of the Bank. In my youthful innocent days I used to think that the function of money was to provide for the easy transfer of goods and services from   producers to consumers. But the sort of cycle that went on was that as people did not consume as much as they produced, they could save it for the purpose of further production, and that out of that saving, they got something for having saved. That I think was called the practice of usury. I believe that in mediaeval days this practice of usury was regarded as a necessary evil, and that those who produced things were looked upon as very desirable people. I am sorry that with the march of time, that has changed in some respects. Money has reached the stage at which it has become the master, and the craftsman is more or less the necessary evil. I can only hope that one effect of this Bill will be to get these things into their true proportions. The thing that matters, so far as we are concerned, is not the manipulation of money, but the production of goods and services. If the Bill makes that clear it will have achieved one of the objects for which we on this side of the House were elected. We promised the electors that we would see that money was used as the servant, not as the master of the State; that we would see it was used in such a way that those goods and services necessary for the wellbeing of the whole people would be produced. An hon. Gentleman opposite referred to the origin of the Bank of England. I believe it is an ancient and honourable institution, established originally for the purpose of providing a loan of £1,200,000 to the Government at 8 per cent. That was regarded as the right figure at that date. It went on and added to its capital, and I believe that, ultimately, by subscriptions it arrived at a capital of some £11,500,000. It is interesting to note that in 1816, the practice of presentingbonus shares was not unknown. By a special Act the Bank was allowed to create a further, capital sum, increasing the total to £14,500,000, so that of £14,500,000 at which the nominal capital now stands, the original subscribed figure was £11,500,000. That is an important factor in considering the amount of compensation to be paid. It may be argued that there will be the reserves of the Bank to be taken over. I believe that the reserve at the present time is something less than £3,500,000. If they have other reserves they have not declared them, and as they do not publish accounts, we have diffi-  culty in arriving at the true position of the shareholders. A better way than that of giving nearly £58,000,000 for £14,500,000—even accepting the latter figure—would have been to distribute those reserves as profit, not as capital appreciation. Then, by that excellent remedy of Excess Profits Tax, consumer tax, and so forth, the Chancellor could very well have collected a large portion of it. That would have been a much better way for the Party on this side of the House to take. It would not have been giving the shareholders something in perpetuity. At a time when industry was struggling, this Bank, in conjunction with the other banks, was able to give a steady 12 per cent. to its shareholders. Payment on the basis of what it did then is to go on in the future, so that these people are to have in perpetuity what they had in the past. I do not like the financial compensation which is being provided. I regard 12 per cent. on a gilt-edged security as not a proper return but an excessive return. I say that those who will receive it will, for the service they have rendered, have taken a greater sum than they should have taken from the people to whom they have Tendered that service. The Chancellor should take that into consideration in the compensation. In relation to the joint stock banks it is suggested that it is creating some hardship if they are to be subject to the direction of the Bank of England, and through the Bank, of the Treasury, with regard to their future operations. When it is considered that for every additional £1,000 deposited in their coffers they can create credit to the extent of £10,000, I think it is high time that this form of creating credit, which affects each and every person in the country, should be subject to the direction and control of the State, through this House. The creation of credit is of the utmost importance to trade and industry. Therefore, in its working, obviously the State is the important instrument which functions for and on behalf of the whole people. It is surely right and proper if these banks are to be allowed to create credit to that extent that the State should be able to say why and when that credit shall be created. We look on this Bill as the first major measure of socialisation, and the forerunner of the other Measures to which we   are committed. As a result of this Measure, notwithstanding the more than adequate terms of compensation which are being provided, we shall at least have an instrument of control, which is vitally necessary for the future. I hope that when such industries as may come along for nationalisation present their accounts, and say ""We have been able to earn 12 per cent. as well, ""some regard will be had to their practical assets, and not to the amount of dividends they have paid over the period of years. Assets, as far as we are concerned, represent the ability to produce. I appreciate the fact that the same terms cannot be applied precisely to a bank. I am glad to know that what is being paid here is not to be taken as a precedent; I agree with what has already been said, that it would be a most expensive way of taking over the assets of the country. We are looking to the future, knowing that this Measure will receive the approval of the people, and that as a result of it, the Chancellor will be responsible to this House for the financial policy of this country. That is as it should be. It is not a matter for fear so far as we on this side of the House are concerned. I wish the Chancellor good luck with this Bill. I hope it will be accepted speedily and that as a result we shall go forward to a better and more stable planned economy than we have had in the past.
