gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Member for Norfolk, North-West (Mr. Brocklebank-Fowler) will forgive me   if I do not pursue his line of thought. I was greatly interested in what he said but I shall take advantage, instead, of the custom which allows new Members to dwell on constituency affairs. My constituency is in the heart of Lancashire. For 25 years, until 1970, it was well represented by Clifford Kenyon, who will be remembered with deep affection by many hon. Members. More recently Mrs. Connie Monks served the constituency. Perhaps the greatest tribute that I can pay to this lady is to refer to my fragile majority of 405 votes, which was secured only after a ferocious campaign. The Chorley constituency is substantial in both electors and acres. It contains and reflects the concentrated opinion of a wide section of our people. It has districts of great natural beauty, the villages of Rivington and Anglezark being among the most attractive in the country. There is also the township of Leyland—the pride of the British motor industry—where there is a well-informed and highly-skilled work force. I expect that the desperate necessity to extend and improve our public transport service will find the motor company at Leyland ready, capable and anxious to meet requirements. In past years the region in which Chorley is situated has generated enormous prosperity for the whole of the nation, through the coal and cotton industries, but not enough of that prosperity has remained in the area where it was created. There are no longer any pits in my constituency, although we still have the proud village of Coppull, from which miners travel to collieries elsewhere. Cotton, too, has been in steep decline, but it is still of extreme importance to the local economy. Let us hope that the lesson has been absorbed and that the welfare of decent people will never again be put at risk to secure short-term economic advantages. The central Lancashire new town will straddle the Chorley constituency. This is a hold, unique and exciting project. It is not a huddle complex but a programme to enhance existing development over a huge area. The concept is breathtaking in its originality and it is important that the development should not lurch and splutter. The programme should move  forward in harmony so that the provision of industry, housing, hospitals and schools is a continuous process as the concept unfolds. But I am not happy that the members of the board of the new town are appointed. I do not accept the principle that, whereas we elect local councillors and Members of Parliament who are responsible to the electorate, we should appoint members of hospital boards, health boards and new town boards. They may well provide notable service but they are not directly responsible to the people whose lives are affected by their decisions. We are fortunate that my constituency is served by a network of motorways which gives speedy access to all parts of the country. I believe that the area cries out for investment and offers golden prospects to the industry or Government Department which recognises its potential. My constituency is a splendid mixture of town and country, of tradition and progress, of industry and farm land. All the various authorities have shown much vision in providing amenities, especially for the aged. However, I remain concerned at the limited resources for the disabled and the handicapped. I am confident that the appointment of a Minister with special responsibility for them will meet with the approval of the whole House. But the sad fact remains that when one member of a family is afflicted by disability, the whole family is stricken. The parents of a handicapped child bear the burden of terrible and continuous stress, and frequently financial problems are brought about simply by harsh circumstances and by sad misfortune. Of course we appreciate that there are heavy financial responsibilities at Government level, too, but those doubly blessed by wealth and health will surely accept that it becomes in such circumstances a privilege to assist the less fortunate members of our community. I am determined to honour the convention which indicates that I must not be too controversial on this occasion, so I conclude by extending a cordial invitation to all right hon. and hon. Members, particularly those who can influence the course of events, to visit the fair constituency of Chorley to enjoy warm Lancashire companionship and to see with their   own eyes the value of investment in central Lancashire.
