gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with great pleasure that I rise to make my maiden speech. First, I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye. I am well aware that there is a long row of maidens—if I may put it that way—and it is a pleasure and a privilege to be called. It is a particular privilege because there was a stage when I thought that my passage to the House would become well nigh impossible. Many of my Scottish colleagues who have arrived in the House for the first time wonder at other English colleagues for whom this has been their first election. We are battle-scarred veterans in comparison to them. I have fought five elections, one of them a by-election. In two, I stood against party leaders. One was the right hon. Member for Glasgow, Hillhead (Mr. Jenkins) in a by-election last year; he has now retired from his position. The other was the right hon. Member for Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale (Mr. Steel), who,  while not having retired from his position, I understand to be resting. I trust that my sudden arrival in the House has not upset those right hon. Gentlemen too much. I represent the constituency of Aberdeen, South. It was made up of parts of three other constituencies and, unlike the venerable curate's egg, I am pleased to report that my constituency is good in all its parts. The constituency took on two town boroughs of St. Nicholas and St. Clements which were previously represented by the hon. Member for Aberdeen, North (Mr. Hughes), whom I am pleased to see arrive in the Chamber. The old constituency ceded another area — Kincoath — to the constituency now represented by my right hon. Friend the Member for Kincardine and Deeside (Mr. Buchanan-Smith). Similarly, I took on parts of his former constituency— Cove Bay, Nigg and Altens. I am pleased to report to both that the parts of their constituencies that I inherited are in extremely good health, with satisfied constituents. The major part of my constituency was formerly represented by Mr. Iain Sproat, who did not secure reelection to Parliament. I am sure that he will be missed by hon. Members, particularly Conservative Members, because latterly his contribution in Government was effective and forceful. I for one look forward to the day when he can be welcomed back to these Benches. My constituency is diverse. It consists of the southern part of the city of Aberdeen, a city of striking contrasts, both in its industry and geography. I must be almost unique, along with the hon. Member for Aberdeen, North, in representing an urban constituency which has such a beautiful and lengthy beach. It is a well-known city because of its internationally renowned university; more recently, it became particularly famous because of its skill in football. The Aberdeen football club holds both the European and Scottish cups. What gave me greater pleasure than anything was the fact that its reputation in football extended beyond its skill in the field because its supporters, when they went to Europe, were renowned for their good behaviour, unlike so many football supporters who obtain a reputation for completely different conduct. Latterly, Aberdeen has become well known for its oil industry. The rapid expansion of that and related industries has been a great benefit, not only to the city but to surrounding areas. The area owes much of its prosperity and current low jobless total to the fact that oil has come to the north-east of Scotland. The city must be complimented on the way it met the challenge that oil presented. Its people responded with a flexibility that is not to be found in many other parts of the country. It was able to respond to the challenge and provide a suitable basis for the oil industry to flourish. I trust that it will be able to do so into the distant future. Fishing, while still a dominant element in the local economy, is not as dominant as it used to be. The history of Aberdeen must accept that. The deep sea fleet has gone, but I am greatly encouraged by the shift in the fishing industry from catching to processing. There is much that I hope to be able to do as the Member of Parliament for Aberdeen, South to foster that and to ensure that it is a growth area for industry. Aberdeen is famous for its granite. I was interested to learn that the Terrace of the House is supported by Aberdeen granite. I can only say, having been there during the past few weeks, that the weight that has been displayed upon the Terrace needs all the support of Aberdeen granite   that it can get. That export has reached all parts of the country and it has made the city not only famous, but beautiful. No city or its description is complete without a description of its inhabitants. I take this opportunity to set the record straight. The citizens of Aberdeen have the ill-deserved reputation among fellow Scots and others in the United Kingdom of being not the first to dip into their pockets when the occasion demands. As the Member for Aberdeen, South I want to issue a testimonial to the warmhearted and generous character of its people. I have been shown a welcome in the city that I shall not forget. I certainly shall not forget the welcome that was recorded in the votes that I received on polling day. They are a warm-hearted, generous, enterprising and hard-working people. That is why Aberdeen is the prosperous place that it is today. As a new Member I also want to say a few words about the officers of the House, particularly those who deal with security matters—the police officers. No new Member can help but be struck by the courtesy with which we have all been greeted. We have been guided without stint or complaint on many practical matters that would be baffling to anybody entering the House for the first time. It is a compliment to them that so many new Members have found their way around so quickly and can deal with the difficult procedures that we find when we first encounter Westminster. I thank them for that. It must be difficult for them, particularly for the police officers, to have to sit and look at photographs from old election addresses pinned to the backs of doors in their cubicles. I doubt whether any new Members have pinned photographs behind their wardrobe doors at home so that we can repay the compliment. I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak on the Bill, which is a vote of confidence in the future of an industry which is in its infancy. I sometimes wonder whether Labour Members fully appreciate the expansion that can take place in telecommunications in the foreseeable future. It is an expansion which, if properly handled, will provide jobs. If our telecommunications industry is tethered to the monopoly that we still enjoy, we shall not see that expansion in the services or in the production of telecommunications equipment which must go hand in hand with any expansion of the services. People are basically dissatisfied with the whole telecommunications service. They have two views. First, they recognise the failure to innovate when technological change presented that possibility. Secondly, they recognise the fall in the standard of service. I am certain that the Bill will cure that. The more serious is the failure to respond to technological change. Over the years our system has fallen far behind systems in other countries. It is necessary only to recognise the service and innovation in the United States to realise that we are almost in the dark ages in providing facilities to customers. British Telecom recently has had two answers to innovation—""can't"" and ""don't"". It said it could not supply, and if a customer could supply it said, ""No. We do not want to connect it."" The Bill is designed to crack that attitude. The industry lacks flexibility. If any industry  needs to be flexible it is telecommunications, because it depends on an immediate response to technological innovation. When the Minister of State is charged with implementing the legislation I want him to take into account his powers under clause 21. Before the Bill's introduction, much dissatisfaction was expressed at the way in which standards of equipment were designated and the way in which equipment which had not been provided by British Telecom could be connected to the system. I hope that the Minister will exercise his powers to allow a rapid approval of apparatus, both in design and in eventual testing of specification. The old system, under which British Telecom was allowed to overrule and oversee the designing of apparatus and to test its basic acceptability, did not work quickly enough. It cost too much and companies were not designing or manufacturing equipment to be plugged into the network because they did not believe that British Telecom would be a fair judge of the equipment. I hope that a different approach will prevail so that companies are not required to pay too much to have equipment tested and that it can be tested quickly so that no further lengthy delays occur before new equipment is connected to the system. I am sure that a common sense approach will be adopted. I look forward with interest to that approach being outlined. I believe that the Bill is a landmark on the way to a new industrial revolution. Information technology is one way forward to create jobs. It is one way forward to keep our industries internationally competitive. Without the Bill, we shall be severely disadvantaged. When history is written, I am almost certain, but not quite convinced, that Opposition Members will realise how fundamental a landmark it was and regret their ill-inspired hostility to the Bill.
