gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak so early in my parliamentary career and at such a vital time in the country's affairs. It is my privilege to represent the county of Cardigan, a county rooted in the finest traditions of Welsh life and culture. I am now breaking with one of its traditions as I am its first Member of Parliament for over 50 years who does not belong to the legal profession. I am a farmer, a true son of the soil, and proud of it. There has been reference in the debate to the Agricultural Development and Advisory Service. As a practical farmer I pay tribute to the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, who have given me sound advice in the past. I hold them in high esteem. I also pay tribute to my predecessor, who made an honourable contribution to the working of the House and who gave sterling service to the constituency during the past eight years. I am sure that he will be missed by right hon. and hon. Members on the Government side. I hope that I may give equal service to my county and country. I urge those right hon. and hon. Members who have not visited Cardiganshire to do so. They will experience Welsh hospitality at its best. Right hon. and hon. Members may not have the opportunity of visiting the county this summer because we might be in the throes of another General Election—who knows? Cardiganshire is a county of great scenic beauty, and the Welsh way of life flourishes. The majority of the population of the county speak Welsh, and provision is made for this in the county's educational facilities. The county's record in education is second to none in the whole of Britain. Apart from the schools system, we also boast of two colleges of the University of Wales, at Aberystwyth and Lampeter, an agricultural college and a college of librarianship. The National Library of Wales is among our most revered institutions. In Cardiganshire we also have the Welsh Plant Breeding Station, one of the most renowned research establishments  in Europe, which brings benefit not only to this country but to the underdeveloped nations. The average Cardiganshire man is a moderate man, who enjoys a reasonably good life in a largely unspoilt environment. His history over the centuries has been one of hardship, which has bred in him a radical streak, the desire to improve existing conditions. He puts great stress on the quality of life. His tradition too, rightly or wrongly, has made him wish for better things for his children than he himself was able to achieve. The result has been the loss of many of our ablest children from the county to other centres where they can find an outlet for their talents. One of the strongest reasons for implementing the Kilbrandon Report's recommendations to set up a legislative parliament for Wales is the power such a parliament would have to establish Welsh assembly and government offices in mid-Wales, dealing with agriculture, tourism, afforestation and so on, this in its turn attracting back some of Cardiganshire's ablest people. It often strikes me as ironical that Cardiganshire gives its children an excellent education, culminating in a range of higher education, only to find that at the end of the process there is no work in the county to offer them. There is a small number of light industries in Cardiganshire, but we need many more to keep our young people. The basic industry in Cardiganshire is agriculture. The subject is naturally dear to my heart, and I am glad to see a reference to this extremely important industry in the Gracious Speech. However, I am somewhat disappointed not to have heard how the promised expansion is to be brought about. I believe that the confidence and stability in farming must be restored without delay, and I urge the Minister, as a matter of priority, to submit a price review immediately guaranteeing adequate prices for farm produce. It is vitally important that the pig, dairy, sheep, wool and all other sectors of the livestock industry receive immediate help, because many farmers are in great difficulties. I suggest that the Minister immediately reintroduces grant aid for lime and slag at a higher rate than before so that productivity can be increased in   those sectors of the industry—an immediate injection of capital into the industry to be followed in due course by a strategic price review so that farmers in each sector of the industry can be free to plan ahead for up to five or ten years. The Liberals also advocate legislation to establish a land bank which would give the necessary capital at low interest rates to enable the young farmer to set himself up in farming. One of the greatest problems in agriculture today is the rapid decline in the labour force. At least half the work force has left the land over the past few years. As past Governments have failed the industry, so the farmers have been unable to pay their workers adequately and consequently it is becoming more difficult to find the right stockmen, and particularly shepherds. The agricultural worker is among the worst paid in Britain, and the answer must be to give the farmer enough return for his product to pay those who work for him in an adequate fashion. In my view, the Government should give more money for research into the development of marginal and hill land. Many thousands of acres in my constituency have great potential for production but because of lack of money, they are not being exploited. Farmers in such areas should be given every encouragment to develop this type of land. However, there are two schools of thought about the way it should be used. Some people come down on the side of recreation, but, in my view, because of the extreme seriousness of the food situation in this country, the use should be purely agricultural. We must get our priorities right. We need the food and I am convinced that production in hill and marginal land could be increased, not by 50 per cent. or even 100 per cent. but by as much as 200 per cent. over the next 10 years, given the right incentives and opportunities. At the same time, I would not wish to keep away the many thousands of visitors to my county. Tourism is another important industry there. I suggest the setting up of small parks of between 20 and 30 acres by the new local authorities to cater for the needs of the town and city dwellers who visit and enjoy the Welsh countryside at its best. Immediate help is  also required for horticulture if we are to maintain this necessary source of food supply. One of the biggest problems at the moment is the rocketing price of fuel, which has risen by about 300 per cent. in the last year. I hope that something can be done to relieve such pressure on agriculture. The Gracious Speech promises similar encouragement to maximum production by the fishing industry, and it could be helpful to know by what means that can be done. Will there be incentives? Will the White Fish Authority be allowed supplements to its training fund? Is money to be spent on research both into fish stocks and fish farming? The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has to shoulder a tremendous amount of responsibility—too much, in my opinion. He has to look after the interests of both producers and consumers. I believe that the time has now come to separate these two responsibilities. Welsh Liberals also advocate that a Minister of State for Welsh agriculture should be appointed to safeguard, in Brussels, the interests of Welsh farmers. I also urge the Government to give a direct grant to the Welsh Agricultural Export Council so that it can exploit the potential markets for Welsh agricultural products abroad and attract overseas buyers. What it all comes to in the end is co-operation and understanding between Government, producer and housewife. Too often the general public imagine that subsidies are purely for the benefit of the producers, namely, the farmers, the fishermen and the horticulturists. However, the aim is to increase production so that the consumer does not have to pay excessive prices brought about by world food shortages.
