gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I approach my task this evening with some trepidation and I trust that hon. Members of this House will accord to me the same kindly courtesy and indulgence which they have shown to former maiden speakers. Perhaps I have one regret that my maiden speech should be made on this occasion. It is that it gives me little opportunity to reply in the controversial fashion in which I should like to reply to the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Fuel and Power. I find myself profoundly in disagreement with him upon a large number of issues. But this evening I intend to confine my comments largely to the one or two points on which I was in general agreement with him. So far, a great deal of attention has been paid to the question of dirty and unsatisfactory household coal, but very little attention has been shown to the inadequacy of the supply of domestic solid fuel and the fact that so many householders in all parts of the country are manifestly unable to obtain the stringent rations which should be available. The household coal ration, in what is styled by the Ministry of Fuel and Power as the north of England, is 50 cwts. per annum, and in what is styled the south of England it is 34 cwts. per annum. When I have inquired upon previous occasions where the dividing line is between the North of England and the South, I have been told that it is an arbitrary line drawn from the Severn to the Wash, and that very little consideration is given to the special claims of any householder who may be two miles on the right side or two miles on the wrong side of that arbitrary line. It is important at present to draw attention to the widespread dissatisfaction with the allocation of fuel against the household ration. I asked a Parliamentary Question on the 20th of this month drawing attention to the position in the area covered by my constituency. That happened to coincide with half a dozen other Questions from Members from various parts of the country, notifying similar difficulties. Evidently the consensus of opinion is that only about 70 per cent. of the allocation due to householders has, in fact, been reaching them during the last few months.  In all conscience, the amount of that household allocation is small enough. I believe that, so far, insufficient attention has been focused upon the comparison between what the household consumer is given in this year of grace 1950 and what he had in 1938. The statistics are illuminating, though nobody has referred to them today. They ought to be brought out. In 1938, the total consumption of household solid fuel was 45,800,000 tons, of which 1,600,000 tons comprised anthracite and 44,200,000 tons comprised ordinary solid fuel—ordinary coal. In 1949, which is the last full year, the amount of household fuel allotted against householders' allocations was only 30,800,000, comprising 28,600,000 tons of ordinary coal and 2,200,000 tons of anthracite. The comparison is between 45,800,000 in 1938 and 30,800,000 in 1949, a direct reduction of 15,000,000 tons. That represents, approximately, a cut of 33 per cent. and takes no account of the increase in population during the intervening years. But what is equally important, statistically, and to which I would draw the attention of the Minister in particular, is the comparison between the sum total of household coal allocated and the total national production. In 1938, there were 45,800,000 tons of household coal used out of a total national production of 227 million tons. That represented 19¾ per cent. of the total coal mined and going for household purposes. Today, there are 30,800,000 tons used for household purposes in relation to a total national production of 214,500,000 tons of coal, and that represents only 14½ per cent. In 1938 the percentage was 19½, and today it is only 14¾, and that represents perhaps a more marked illustration than the 33 per cent. reduction in the quantity allocated to household users. I believe that the domestic consumer today is entitled to something more than the parlous pittance which he has been receiving in the last few winter months. I would also like to make reference to what might be regarded as a thorny issue with hon. Members opposite who represent mining constituencies, and that is concessionary coal for miners. I would say, at the outset, that I strongly support the free issue of coal to miners. I believe   in concessionary or preferential treatment in the supply of the products of any industry to the workers engaged in it. But hon. Gentlemen opposite are keen supporters of the policy of ""fair shares,"" and I believe that the Minister would do well to compare the allocation of household fuel at present derived on a concessionary basis by miners with the allocation of household fuel derived by heavy workers engaged in other industries. I refer particularly to the heavy chemical worker, the heavy steel worker and to the agricultural worker. In 1938, 4,600,000 tons of household coal was given as concessionary coal to 782,000 miners. In 1949, 4,900,000 tons of concessionary coal, an increase of 300,000 tons, were given to 719,500 miners. In other words, in spite of a reduction of some 60,000 in the effective mining strength of the country, the allocation on the concessionary basis of 300,000 tons more household coal was given to those engaged in the industry. I believe that we ought to take 1938, statistically, as a base and give it 100 units. If we do so the increase in the concessionary coal for miners is one of 17 per cent., and that means that they are now receiving 117 units compared with 100 in 1938, whereas the ordinary domestic consumer, which includes the heavy steel and chemical workers, receives only 67 units. I believe that the comparison between the 67 units for the ordinary domestic consumer and the 117 units for the miner is proportionately too great for any hon. Members of this House who claim to support a policy of ""fair shares."" May I now pass to what I believe is a widespread and vexed problem confronting the National Coal Board today? In 1947, when they commenced their duties upon a national scale, it was necessary for them to keep in operation quite a large number of small pits in remote areas. They were found from the north of Scotland to Penzance, some of them employing two dozen men and some about 100, but all of them operating on a very small basis. Of course, the National Coal Board organisation found them very difficult to administer. Therefore, the National Coal Board, rightly, began its policy of granting licences for private operation. Unfortunately, many of these pits, although they requested licences on a long-term basis for five,  eight or 10 years, have been given licences only on a year-to-year basis. They asked for long-term licences in order that they should have some security of tenure to justify the considerable capital equipment which was involved in their development. I refer particularly to a pit in my own constituency, Bayton, about which I questioned the Minister on the 20th of this month. The right hon. Gentleman replied by giving his reason for the closure: I always regret inconvenience to householders, and still more what might be hardship to miners, but I can assure the hon. Gentleman that no pit is closed unless there are overwhelming reasons in favour of doing so.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 20th March, 1950; Vol. 472, c. 1532.] In pursuit of my inquiries, in connection with the closing of this pit I have been at pains to discuss the matter with members of the National Union of Mineworkers, local officials of the National Coal Board, consumers in the area and colliers, and this is what has transpired. I particularly ask the Minister to check these facts for himself. In 1947, a licence was given to the Bayton Colliery Company for one year only. The Bayton Colliery Company said that they wanted a licence for 10 years because of the considerable capital expenditure that would be needed at the pit if they were to keep it in operation, and they pointed out that a one-year licence would not enable them to keep the pit going. After a few months' operation they again applied for a 10-year licence, and when the one-year licence expired, they were given another, again only for a period of one year. They again pressed for a 10-year licence, which was refused by the Coal Board, so that, at the end of the second year's operation, they were reluctantly obliged to tell the Coal Board that unless they could have long-term security it would not be a practical proposition to keep the pit in operation. The National Coal Board therefore took over on 1st January, 1949. While that pit was being worked under licence a royalty of 5s. per ton was paid to the Board, and I suggest that the Board could have no grouse on that score because the royalty was a very generous one. It was precisely 20 times the royalty paid in the days of the private owners and before the Coal Board came into operation, for they got only   3d. per ton. This royalty of 5s. was paid on the coal mined, and the output of the pit, although not large—I am not pleading bigness for this case—supplied many remote villages without any railway connections in the western part of Worcestershire. In spite of these circumstances, the Coal Board decided to take it over and they operated the pit for a period of nine months, when, having lost 11s. per ton on the coal mined, at the end of 1949 they arbitrarily decided to close the pit. I believe that there are thousands of similar cases up and down the country. We are all interested in seeing that there is the maximum production of high quality coal, which was the type of coal produced by the Bayton pit. What conceivable reason can there be for refusing to allow small pits in remote areas to continue to operate under licence, so long as they pay a good royalty to the National Coal Board and are producing a reasonable yield to swell the common pool? Now I wish to say a word on the question of opencast coal mining, particularly as I am delighted to see in his place the right hon. Gentleman the Minister for Agriculture. It seems to me to be a contentious issue between the Ministries of Fuel and Power and Agriculture as to what can be considered to be good agricultural land for growing food, and what can be considered as fair meat for the Minister of Fuel and Power upon which to engage his opencast coal mining operations. In fact, the conflict of policy between these two Departments is, I believe, much the same as that which has existed, and still exists, between the Ministry of Food and the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe that the poorest of poor coal today is that derived from the opencast areas. I have been at great pains to examine the facts of the operations myself, in South Shropshire, and I am certain that the areas devastated by opencast coal mining will be irrecoverable for food production purposes for the remainder of my natural life at any rate, or for any other purpose. The replacement of the topsoil has been carried out in such a slipshod manner that that land has been ruined for all foreseeable time ahead. We may have been obliged, during the last two or three years, to resort to opencast coal mining, and I concede to the right hon. Gentleman that there was something in his argument about the comparison between rates of absenteeism in 1938 and rates of absenteeism in 1949. But, while making that concession to him, I feel it proper to point out that 6.4 per cent.—the total rate of voluntary and involuntary absenteeism in 1938—cannot, by the causes that he has attributed to this problem, be converted into a rate of absenteeism of 12.34 per cent. in 1949. I want to stress this particular point in relation to opencast coal mining because I believe it is of special importance. The output of opencast coal in 1945—that is, the last full year—was in the region of 12 million tons. The loss was £14 million. The amount of that loss, therefore, is equal to £1 2s. 6d. per ton of opencast coal. If that rate of overall absenteeism applicable to coal mining were reduced to even the 1938 level—and that is possible—the 6 per cent. saving in absenteeism, applicable to the coal production of 202,500,000 tons of deep-mined coal in the full year 1949, would itself yield 12.12 million tons of coal, which is within.22 of one million tons of coal, equal to the entire opencast coal mining output of last year. That is not a happy coincidence. I believe that Ministerial policy should be directed more vigorously to the reduction of absenteeism in coal mining than to the extension of opencast mining activities, and I regret to see it stated on page 23 of the Economic Survey for 1950 that opencast production, which amounted to 12 million tons, approximately, in 1949, is to be increased, in 1950, to 13 million tons. That addition of 8 per cent., approximately, in opencast mining activities will, I am sure, be conducted at the expense, very largely, of food production in sound agricultural areas. My appeal to the Minister, therefore, is fourfold. First, to give the household consumer a square deal in his coal supplies; second, to retain in operation, under licence from the National Coal Board, the maximum number of small collieries, notably the Bayton pit, provided they are prepared to pay reasonable royalties and show a yield of good coal to the common pool; third, to stop opencast coal mining activities, especially on   agricultural land; fourth, and what I believe is possibly the most important of all, to take active and vigorous steps to prevent the mountainous losses now taking place owing to the distribution of millions of tons of unburnable muck which is facetiously referred to as coal.
