gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I desire to say a few words on a matter which was mentioned by the Attorney-General with regard to the position of judges' clerks and to support the plea of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Northants, South (Mr. Manningham-Buller) that something a little more sustaining than sympathy, from however exalted a quarter it may come, should at the earliest possible moment be provided to do something to ameliorate their present precarious financial position. As the Attorney-General said, judges' clerks perform, albeit unobtrusively, a most important work in the day by day administration of justice. Those of us who have any experience of circuits know that a first-class judge's clerk goes a long way in ensuring the smooth running of our circuit system. They help and advise litigants, solicitors and counsel, and it seems to me of the highest possible importance that there should be attaching to this post conditions which will attract men of experience and ability. As hon. Members opposite have indicated, the financial position of judges' clerks has grown much worse with the passage of the years. In days gone by, most judges made provision for their clerks in case they should retire or die. Under present circumstances that is impossible, and the clerk himself, upon a salary which, I am told, is approximately the same as it was in 1873, is quite incapable of making adequate provision. It is for those reasons that I venture to hope that something may be done to relieve a great burden of anxiety from a devoted band of public servants. Although they are only small in number—their total, I think, is about 48 or 50—the danger will be that unless something is done, men of experience and ability will be unable to risk the financial sacrifice which is so often entailed by a judge's clerk when he goes with his master to the bench. I sincerely hope that some plan may be devised so that they may be provided with some kind of pension to relieve the existing load of anxiety from their minds and to maintain that quality which up to now has existed.
