gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I begin by asking for the indulgence of the Committee, which it always so kindly gives to those who address it for the first time? It is an indulgence that I shall need all the more after having heard the two other maiden speeches delivered this afternoon. I wish to make the point, which, I know, has been made before, but which, in my view, cannot be sufficiently emphasised, that the provision of adequate housing for the people is really the greatest of all the social services. When we read these excellent reports and consider housing, we should always bear in mind that it is the most important of the social services. We can pass any number of Acts aimed at improving the health of the people, improving the education of the children, giving wider opportunities to people and making them happier, but such things all depend and are founded upon the adequate provision of homes for those people and those children to live in. We should ask ourselves whether we are giving proper priority to this provision of homes for our people. I do not think that we are at the present time. We are told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that we are to go back to a figure of 200,000 houses for the next three years, but even that figure will not be effective until 1951. It is a poor outlook for those who are still without houses. The figure is not large enough, and should the conduct of our affairs, by some unlikely mischance, be in the same hands for the next three years, it offers cold comfort to those whose names are on the waiting lists. We all know of many sad, pathetic and tragic cases of people who need houses. They are brought to our notice each week and day after day in the letters we receive. I urge the Government to raise their sights and to give more priority to housing, not only on the grounds of sentiment—although, heaven knows, they are sufficient—but on practical grounds. We should have an adjustment of our programme in favour of greater expenditure on housing. It would be a most excellent investment, and I am convinced that in the years to come, it would result in a corresponding lightening of the demands made on the Health Service and on its ancillary services. There is still another practical reason. Both sides of the Committee are agreed that there should be reasonable flexibility in the labour market, that a man should be able and free to move from employment in one place to employment in another, which is, perhaps, not only to his own advantage, but also to the advantage of productive industry as well. Until we deal adequately with the housing problem, labour cannot easily move from one place to another because there are not the houses for the men to go to. That is a most important consideration. One of the reasons why direction of labour could never have worked lies in the fact that no man could be compelled to change his job and move to another area if there was no house for him in the town in which he was called upon to work. When we demand that there should be a greater number of houses built, we are told that there is not enough timber. Then we are told that timber means dollars, and that dollars are scarce. If there are insufficient dollars with which to buy timber for housing purposes, then there are certainly not enough with which to buy anything else. We should allocate more of our scarce dollars for the purchase of timber and make savings in other directions. At the same time, we should make greater, more rapid and more skilful efforts to obtain timber from soft currency areas. It is estimated that by spending an extra 10 million dollars we could obtain enough Canadian timber for 100,000 more houses. That is only something like 2½ per cent. of our imports from dollar areas, yet the sum of human happiness and increased industrial efficiency which those extra 100,000 houses would induce is quite incalculable. Again, it is said that even if these priorities were given there are not enough employed in the industry to bring about an appreciable increase in the number of houses produced. Surely that is where this Report, and reports like it, come in. They state that more houses could be built if greater and more efficient use were made of the resources of labour and materials available, and if we used more dollars with which to get more materials so as to give the labour a more even flow of work. If many of these practical recommendations were carried out, there is every   reason to believe that a considerable increase in the number of houses produced by the present labour force would result. After all, the present labour force is practically the same as that employed before the war. The main thing necessary is that the Government should create conditions in which the industry is allowed to work most efficiently. Constant changes in investment policy create uncertainty and doubt among those working in the industry and among manufacturers. Such uncertainty acts as a brake upon all sections of the industry. I do not think that could be disputed. The creation of such conditions as I advocate is a matter for which the Government must accept the responsibility as things are at present. It is something the Government must do. A day or two ago I visited a constituent of mine, a retired builder, who had built his own house a couple of years ago. It was an excellent house. It took 12 weeks to build from start to finish and cost less than a council house. I asked him how he had managed. He said, ""I got all the material together on the site. As soon as one chap left another chap came on to do his job and the whole thing went smoothly."" That seems to be the essence of successful building and a successful building industry. We can get greater production from the industry by extending incentive payments. That means co-operation from both sides of the industry. I should also like to see a little more scope in rural areas for the local builder who cannot undertake large contracts. Why cannot he be allowed more easily to put up one or two houses in fairly isolated local districts where they are needed? So often a large part of such houses can be built of material lying in his yard which he cannot use at present. I cannot see why we should not have some variation in the size of house. There is a demand for four-roomed houses, especially from old people living in houses which are now too large for them. I believe local authorities are discouraged from building smaller houses, and so saving money and materials, because of the present method of giving floor area costs as a basis for assessing housing tenders. This is an argument in favour of a more flexible approach to that problem. We must aim to build more houses, more quickly and more cheaply. Unless  we do this, we shall find that the rents of new houses owned by local authorities, even with subsidies, are beyond the reach of the people who need them most. That is wrong and entirely contrary to what we all want. I already hear of names being taken off housing lists because those on the lists now feel they cannot afford them. We cannot be satisfied with the target set by the Government for the next three years. By a wiser timber-buying policy, by learning from this Report and by learning from its failures in the past, the Government have it in their power, if they wish, greatly to increase the number of homes for the people of this country and I believe, they have a paramount duty to do so.
