gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am not yet fully familiar with the rules of the House, but I should perhaps begin by declaring an interest. Part of what  I have to say refers to matters that perhaps relate to the senior partnership that I hold in a firm of Sheffield solicitors. My constituency is formed out of three parts and can be said, therefore, to be rather like Gaul. Part of it came from the old constituency of Widnes. The Member for that old constituency is still a Member of this place. I refer to my right hon. Friend the Member for Halton (Mr. Oakes). I have no doubt that he will continue in his new constituency the superb work that he performed in the Widnes part of my constituency. A further part of the constituency has been formed by the old constituency of Huyton. As Sir Harold Wilson has now retired, I pay tribute to the work that he undertook in that part of my constituency and to the fine service that he gave to that part of my seat. The bulk of my constituency comes from the old St. Helens constituency, which was served for about 25 years by Mr. Leslie Spriggs, who has now retired. I am sure that the whole House wishes him a long and happy retirement. Mr. Spriggs was extremely kind to me after my selection and assisted me greatly. He served the people of my town with great devotion and loyalty over a considerable period. I consider it a great honour to be able to speak in this place on behalf of St. Helens. It is a town with friendly and kindly people. Over the past few years it has seen the decimation of its base. When I listened to the Queen's Speech I found that it contained little to comfort my constituents. The town has its part in the glass industry, and without a construction industry the glass industry has little or no future. Over the past few years thousands have lost their jobs in the industry. St. Helens contains coal pits. We have heard only today that, in the pursuit of the mythical gods of efficiency, quality and economic progress, one of our coal mines might be said to be uneconomic. It is always baffling to hear it said that a pit has become uneconomic because of the ""current situation"". It always seems silly to stop production at a pit while there is still coal to be extracted. We know from the moment that the machinery is removed that the seam will never be reopened and that the coal left in it will be lost for ever. The policy that is now being suggested can have nothing but disastrous results for our industry in the long term. St. Helens is also a town with an engineering industry. I said ""with an engineering industry"", but we all know what has happened to the engineering industry in the north of England — my home town of Sheffield has experienced it with great misery — because of the policies of the past four years, policies that the Gracious Speech does little to change. The area also has farming, and it could be said that the farmers in my area are the only people there who have never had it so good. However, the overall impression in my constituency is one of steady decline. I know that the area is not entitled to assisted area or development area status until it reaches a certain level of unemployment. We are almost at 20 per cent. now, and such economic planning is like the treatment of cancer. One must wait until one is dying from it before one is given any help to cure it. Areas such as mine should have the help that they need before the point when they are entitled to it. If we could prevent unemployment, that would be far better than trying to cure it rather than waiting for it to curse those whom we seek to represent. The Gracious Speech contains several matters relating to civil liberties. It is ironic that, many hundreds of years ago, the barons met at Brackley in May, to march to Runnymede in June, to set the basis of English civil liberties. This Gracious Speech seeks one again to attack many of the liberties that we once had. There is almost an Orwellian magnetism in the way in which we have progressed during the past four or five years. Someone said earlier today that the thug, the bully or the bandit should not lead us down a certain road and that we must do everything to stop them. Everyone must agree that we should incarcerate the criminal and arrest the wrongdoer, but we must also preserve the liberty of the individual. Serious attacks upon our civil liberties were written into the shambles of the Police and Criminal Evidence Bill that came before the previous Parliament. We must turn back the tide that has tried to attack many of our basic liberties. The Gracious Speech refers to new terrorist legislation. If we stand aside for a moment and consider the current Prevention of Terrorism Act 1976, we can see that it is a negation of our civil liberties. The Government wish to introduce a new Bill that will be reviewed only at five-yearly intervals. Many things that have happened during the past few years have worried me increasingly. Perhaps I may give the House one simple example arising from my reference at the beginning of my speech to my profession. The House passed the Bail Act 1976, whose concept was that people should have bail. However, the effect, as any practising lawyer could tell the House, has been a negation of the right to bail. What now happens is that a person comes before the court on the first occasion and is remanded in custody. Once he is in custody, it becomes very difficult for him to get bail. The introduction of the Bail Act was an attempt to empty our prisons of people who should not be there. However, the present concept is to lock up as many people as possible. The position has been made even worse by what happened in the previous Parliament. We now bring people back ""with their consent"" before the courts only after long periods—sometimes three to four weeks or more, with the result that people who will ultimately not be incarcerated are imprisoned for long periods without physically appearing in a court. Those are just a few examples that I hope in future, if I catch your eye again, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to bring to the attention of the House. Although in that June many hundreds of years ago we in this land tried to create the concept of individual civil liberties, we are now in danger of running down the path where, for the sake of administrative and other convenience—because we are frightened by some event—we are beginning to negate the fundamental principle that all men are free and that all men have equal rights. The Opposition have been accused of wishing to control society from the centre. I ask Conservative Members to consider carefully the legislation proposed in the Gracious Speech, because it contains many elements of that centralised, Orwellian concept of Big Brother, bureaucracy knows best, and that the individual has few rights and that those that he has are slowly being negated. It has been a privilege to come here today. I thank my constituents for electing me and I hope to serve them as ably as did my predecessors.
