gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for this chance of inflicting a third maiden speech on the House. I hope that I may also be forgiven for admitting how much I treasure this opportunity to make my first contribution to parliamentary debate. It is the consummation of many years' involvement in various activities that I have always believed could result in gaining election to this House. In stating that I represent Cornwall, North, I am well aware that I am known immediately as the victor over John Pardoe rather than as Gerry Neale. My contribution to the debate on regional policy gives me an opportunity to show my respect for my predecessor, who represented the constituency for 13 years. It also allows me to express my own deep concern for the well-being of Cornwall. John Pardoe championed the cause of Cornwall in a way that won him respect from even his political opponents. In his role as deputy leader of the Liberal Party, and in his spirited espousal of Liberal causes, he left none doubting his resources of energy and determination. Having campaigned against him twice in five years, and having disagreed with him fundamentally on certain issues, I could not bring myself to dislike him or disrespect him. He was as magnanimous in defeat in May of this year as he was considerate in his victory over me in October 1974. I wish to thank him for that, and on behalf of Cornwall, North I thank him for his service to the constituency since 1966. His defeat is undoubtedly a sad loss for the Liberal leader, for whom I feel a little sympathy but to whom I make no apology. In the context of this debate, it is just as important for the Government to understand why, in my view, Cornwall, North now has a Conservative Member after 13 years of Liberal representation. Cornwall, North may be concerned about the standards of education, law and order and trade union power, but what has   increasingly dominated opinion in the constituency has been the economic performance of the country under the Labour Administration. Opposition centred on three aspects—on the level of personal taxation, the extent of Government expenditure and interference and on the level of unemployment. With that opposition came the realisation that the Liberal Party could do nothing to bring about the much-needed change in political direction and leadership. It was the sudden and unexpected support by the Liberal Party for the Labour Government in the spring of 1977 that in my view sounded the death knell for Liberalism in the constituency. North Cornwall may have all the appearances of a relaxed area of scenic beauty, in which nearly every hon. Member at some time seems to have spent a holiday. But, despite appearances, it is made up of people who thirst after strong leadership and clearer direction. At the same time, they expect greater freedom for private enterprise. Without large-scale employers and excessive trade union representation, its economy depends on small businesses, be they farmers, hoteliers, small factories, shopkeepers, scientists or craftsmen. There is below-average pay and above-average unemployment, although there are shortages of labour in some skills. For my part, I have known of, and become increasingly involved in, Cornwall's affairs over the past 15 years. I speak as a solicitor who started, and has been involved in, the current expansion of two businesses, one professional and one industrial. I have had the good fortune to have served on a planning committee for the new city of Milton Keynes—an area as different from North Cornwall as one could find. Compared with the wealth of experience in this House, I am aware of my own shortcomings. If I err into controversial areas, I hope that it is not judged as a discourtesy but more as a sincerity of view on this subject. I am led to the conclusion that the Government, no matter how caring or spendthrift, can do very little to create industrial jobs in any real number. They are limited merely to saving jobs, all too often in industries that are no longer relevant to today's needs. Those jobs are allowed to linger on, soaking up the  energy that ought to be applied to encouraging alternative sources of employment. By the very nature of things, some large-scale industries become redundant and obsolete in that their products or services are no longer required by the market. It is rarely even practicable to plan for the immediate replacement of one large-scale employer by another. That is a painful political admission. To indulge in financial inducements to industry is to strike it with an economic flaw that politicians seem too ready to ignore. Governments can only designate development areas, assisted areas, intermediate areas, travel-to-work areas and any other form of area. They cannot make industries develop. Any form of development area, so-called, in my view, first needs businesses willing to relocate to it, and it has to be remembered that there are many non-assisted areas in this country, with public projects such as new towns and private projects of industrial development, all competing to obtain these prospective employers for their area. What all these areas have discovered—assisted and non-assisted alike—is that there are all too few companies in total actually wishing to relocate; that these companies initially considered assisted and non-assisted areas irrespective of grants; and that these companies very often ignore the carrot of grants, plump for non-assisted areas and then become infuriated by development certificates bureaucracy. But worst of all, as my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol, North-West (Mr. Colvin) indicated, is that the companies, by the very act of relocation and the installation of increased technology, actually need fewer employees to obtain a higher output. A wise business judges the merits of any geographical location in terms of the viability of its investment and prospective trade. Can it really make sense, then, to offer financial inducements out of hard-earned taxpayers' money to encourage that business to throw its wisdom out of the window and go to an area which it has already dismissed? On the other hand, if a business can only find a viable future based on State grants and regional aid, can it be wise, on behalf of the taxpayer, in effect to invest in that company? I cannot take as lenient a view as my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State.   In my view, industries, large and small, entrepreneurs and small business men, become established, they expand job opportunities, and they prosper, and they even fail, in spite of rather than as a result of Government grants and central Government and local government planning policies. For those reasons, I welcome, though not with a full heart, the direction which is now being given to the regional industrial policy by the Secretary of State for Industry. If I were to criticise it, I would say that the cuts are not bold enough. In addition, I am suspicious of the fact that the machinery for regional aid is left intact. It may be thought that I would have been expected to welcome increased aid to Cornwall. I do not. This may surprise my West Country colleagues, but I cannot deceive myself into believing that it is Government aid which will reverse the tide on jobs in Cornwall. I arrived in this House as concerned as anyone about the levels of unemployment. With that concern I carry a sense of frustration that jobs could so easily become available. To make them available, I believe that the Government must concentrate far less on policies of regional and industrial aid and much more on those relating to employment and planning law. To pursue regional inducements in Cornwall will serve only to distort the Cornish economy still further. But, worse than that, I feel that it will offer the very escape route which serves local planners most and local unemployment least. With grants available and industrial space and zones available, but no prospective tenants, those planners can then blame the short-sightedness of industrialists rather than their own. Cornwall, like any other region, has to face its own set of economic facts of life. In the meantime, the Government must concentrate more on the continued reduction of bureaucracy surrounding employment and on the inhibiting provisions of the Employment Protection Acts. These hit small businesses. Their relaxation would clear a log-jam of available jobs in my constituency. The National Farmers Union states that there are many such potential jobs in agriculture. On planning powers for local authorities, Government statements offer a far cheaper and healthier way than regional  aid for curing the worst effects of unemployment. The reduction of these powers would enable Cornwall's economy to flourish. The principal planning authority in North Cornwall has succeeded in each of the past three years in reducing the percentage of applications which it approves. It currently processes only one in five applications within an eight-week statutory time limit. But an industry exists which could in large part hold the key to Cornwall's economic future. Tourism offers immense prospects for the county on jobs, yet it is the planners, and not regional aid, that prevent their realisation. Many tourist ventures are able to sustain large staffs all through the winter, yet there are too many examples of applications being refused. No Government money is required, Private enterprise has it available and ready to invest. In Newquay there are businesses wishing to expand on their own land and premises but they are refused consent. Yet at one and the same time factory space is being constructed by public money and remains vacant for much of its life. The previous Labour Administration distinguished themselves in North Cornwall by presiding over such expenditure, on the one hand, and by witnessing one person losing his job in the constituency for each single working day that they were in office, with another job even disappearing each weekend. Surely there is a need not to ask whether the regional aid was enough but to ask whether it has any effect at all, because it is so insensitive to local resources and requirements. The Conservative Party fought its election campaign on individual responsibility and the need to devolve power back to the individual from central Government as well as local government. I am able to stand in this Chamber because a substantial majority in North Cornwall shared that conviction. That majority want their parliamentary representative and their councillors—county and district—to face the fact that Cornwall wishes to do, and believes that it can do, much more for itself. It wants to be taxed less—and, mercifully, the present Government have done that. It wants to be governed less—and, thankfully, the present Government have promised that. But most of all it wants to be subsidised less. Subsidies do not give value for   money. They brand Cornwall as an area lacking in enterprise and lacking in local employment opportunities, and neither image is true. North Cornwall is one of the most beautiful areas of Britain, and I am honoured to represent it. Of course, I do not wish to see it stripped of its charm and beauty. While I support the motion, I urge the Government to be more courageous, and to set a programme to phase out this smothering mantle of regionalism and trust the people. Let them challenge the local authorities to service enterprise in their areas rather than to restrict or contain it. Then stand back and watch Cornwall as an example. The apparent need for subsidies would dissolve, unemployment would fall and the well-being of these so-called deprived areas would then become a matter of pride to those who live in them and represent them.
