gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I ask for the usual kind indulgence of the House when it is addressed by a new Member for the first time? I am told that I must be non-controversial; and that is very   difficult sometimes, perhaps particularly so when the subject under discussion appears to be that remarkable thing, an enormity which really makes no difference. This present change has been attacked upon both those grounds, and even so attacked by the same speaker. It does indeed throw a lurid light upon the present condition of affairs if it is so enormous that without any change it must remain an enormity. But surely the real position is this, that this Measure is a translation into statutory form of a great deal that is already common practice. One of the objections made to the Bill by the right hon. Member for the Scottish Universities (Sir J. Anderson) was just that it is bad practice, and contrary to the best traditions, to translate the unwritten into the written. I was reminded as he spoke of a very obvious and comparatively recent instance in which that was done in the very matter of Imperial policy to which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred in his opening speech to-day. Surely the Statute of Westminster was just exactly that. It met, I think, at the time with the support of hon. Members opposite, and I have never heard that that translation of actual, traditional facts into a statutory form has led to any of the disastrous results which are apparently anticipated from the translation which is proposed to-day. Next we were told that this enormity was based on some misapprehension and that at any rate there must be safeguards against it in some directions. One of the misapprehensions, as I understood, upon which the present Bill was based was that the directors of joint stock banks ever take any part in that capacity in political decisions and political affairs. I seem to remember that at the time when the first so-called National Government was formed after the May report there was a very considerable interference by the directors of joint stock banks as such, in their collective capacity, in the dealings of the Government of those days. I took occasion to look at a letter which appeared in ""The Times"" of 14th August, 1931, from that very well known banker, Mr. W. K. Whigham, as he then was. That letter began by saying that the bankers had been called in to advise the Government, and he wrote: This is no idle compliment, but a consequence of the fact that in the conduct of  their banking business they necessarily learn more than any other persons as to the position of the manufacturing and commercial industries of the country, and accordingly are in a strong position to give authoritative advice as to the way out of the economic morass in which the country is struggling. The letter went on to refer to a document called ""The Bankers' Manifesto"" that had been issued about a year previously in favour of Imperial Preference and high tariffs, a document which had been concocted on 4th July, 1930, at a meeting of bankers at Hambro's Bank and which had many signatures. It bore the signatures of 22 bankers, including the chairmen of the Big Five. The purport of that document at the time was the putting forward of a political remedy in the shape of Imperial Preference and tariffs. The advice given by Mr. Whigham, one of the signatories, himself a director of the Bank of England, in his letter was to revert in the circumstances of one year later to what had then been put forward as a ""Bankers' Manifesto. ""Surely what has happened once may well happen again. Though at the moment the Measure which is being brought forward may be no more than a recognition of what is already in practice, it may well be that in some future crisis once again bankers may claim to put forward manifestos, and may claim to be a position to give not merely advice but authoritative advice. Another safeguard asked for as regards the use of the powers under Clause 4 of the Bill was, surely, a somewhat remarkable one. It was suggested that they should not be used to affect the question of fluidity, that is to say, the ratio of the available balances kept by the joint stock banks. That, of course, is a matter upon which the Midland Bank has, before now, differed from other banks and differed from the general practice, but that is precisely the matter upon which more than ten years ago the MacMillan Committee complained of a lack of sufficient contact between the joint stock banks and the Bank of England, and expressly recommended that the joint stock banks should be bidden to accept on this matter the advice of the Bank of England as to the average figure at which they would keep their balances. That recommendation occurs in paragraph 370 of the MacMillan Report, and in the following paragraph complaint is made of a degree of aloofness and remoteness in this connection. Clause 4, in the sense in which it was put forward and with the Amendment which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor offered not merely to accept but to move at a later stage, is no more than turning into statutory form one of the recommendations of that Committee. If it has been carried out it is already in practical existence, and therefore once again we have a case of its making no difference; and if it has not been carried out already, it ought to be. Whether it has been carried out or not, it is surely against the best interests of this country that the Central Bank, charged with the duty of regulating the volume of credit, should be prevented from dealing at that very critical point and on that precise question with the joint stock banks, and should not be allowed to have any voice whatever in the vital question of how, when the volume of credit has been regulated at the source, it is issued, in quantity and in direction, through the fountains of credit. Therefore, humbly as befits a new Member, I suggest that the objections which have been taken to this Bill are not only somewhat inconsistent, but rather strange in view of the expert recommendations which have been made.
