gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great trepidation, Sir Charles, because this is my maiden speech, but I shall always feel trepidation in addressing this august assembly, where everything one says is taken down and may be used in evidence. I am quite sure that in practice it will generally be used in evidence against one. I used to think that there was some analogy between a maiden speech and a maiden over, when you are legitimately allowed to try to bowl the other side out but are not yourself scored off at all, still less hit for six. I know better now, and I have chosen this occasion not only because of the paramount national importance of the subject we are discussing, but also because it is or should be non-contentious. If, nevertheless, some of my observations may tend to be critical, I must ask for the indulgence of the Committee. May I begin by saying that I think education and the necessaries of life which are in short supply are the only two commodities I know of which should properly be equally shared. I use the word "" equally "" advisedly because I do not know what the current term "" fair "" shares means. It must depend, of course, upon the judge and upon the criterion he uses. Education, however, should be the equal opportunity of all. Every child born into our British fellowship should, I think, enjoy—if that is the right word, though, perhaps, it is not—at any rate receive a good education. However, I must differ from the hon. Member for Workington (Mr. Peart) in that I do not think that there is any need for that education necessarily to be "" on the State."" I think that it is the privilege and  responsibility of a parent—of every parent—to be able to choose the education for his child, and, if he can afford to do so and if he wishes to do so, to send him not to a State school but to a different—not necessarily a better, but to a different—form of education; and if he does so, so much the better for the Chancellor and for the taxpayer. It is only when he cannot afford to do so, or does not choose to do so, that the State is there to educate the child up to the best possible standard that the child is capable of reaching. Let me put it another way. Education is a social service; and I believe that social services are or should be a device whereby the Chancellor skims some of the cream off the means of the well-to-do in order that all may have some butter on their bread. If we are all to rub along on £400 a year, as Mr. Bernard Shaw would have us do—though not himself—whence the cream? Where is that coming from? Surely it is not the standardisation of mediocrity but the inequality of individuality which makes for progress. I do not want to get bogged down in details which many other hon. Members of this Committee are better qualified to deal with than I am, such as how many square feet per pupil there should be or the respective merits of drawing versus dining-rooms. I want to come to the heart of the matter, which has been touched on by hon. Members on both sides of the Committee, and that is the object of education. Why are we spending this money? I agree with my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Petersfield (Sir G. Jeffreys) and with the hon. Member for Workington that the object of education is to form character. I think it was Aristotle—I have not been able to trace the exact reference—who defined character as being the daily habit of choosing correctly between right and wrong. If we can teach our youth that, then we shall have won all the wars that can be waged at whatever temperature. To train character I believe we have got to teach self-creation. We have to teach the child to learn to be a real person—for example, to know that there is something better to do on fine Saturday afternoons than to queue up outside a cinema, and to be able to think for himself or herself, and judge for himself and be independent of the tinned and   potted propaganda and misinformation which comes our way today. That, I hope, we can all agree is the true object, and if so, we must ask ourselves: By what methods do we attain this object? To form character we need to have a standard, and I suggest that it should be the Christian standard; and, therefore, Christian teachers are required, at any rate for the non-secular part of the curriculum. I think it is a lamentable characteristic of modern life that a professedly Christian State should allow any man or woman to mould the character of future generations who is not a professed Christian. I shall fall foul of the National Union of Teachers in saying so, I know, but I do not care, because that is what I think. But many professed Communists are now doing that very thing. To me Christianity and Communism—at any rate, as practised in the Communist States, for handsome is as handsome does—are mutually incompatible.
