gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to claim the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my maiden speech and say that I am greatly honoured to be able to speak in such an important debate. This subject is important to the constituents whom I represent. In Hornchurch, there is possibly as large a cross-section of people in differing occupations as anywhere in the country. We have a large proportion of black-coated workers, a very large number of people who work in factories and a very large number who are employed in the motor industry, at the great Ford motor works, at Dagenham. Today, I was fortunate enough to attend a luncheon and preview given by the Ford Motor Company at Harringay Arena, when it introduced its three new models, and I recommend to the House the confidence shown in the Government  by that action of introducing three new models to the country at this time. If it will satisfy the hon. Lady for Coventry, South (Miss Burton), I should say that I found myself seated between. Mr. Wolfson, of whom she may have heard, and a trade union secretary, and I can assure her that they both ate bread. We hear a lot in this House and in the quarters in which we move about such things as the stability of the £ and the dollar gap and other phrases which have a great meaning for us. It will be generally admitted, however, that many of our constituents, hard-working people, do not exactly understand the meaning of these serious terms. They are far more interested in full employment and unemployment, and I believe that the proposals of the Chancellor now will make sure that they continue with full employment and do not return to unemployment, It might be timely to exercise our minds for a few moments about the way unemployment starts. It may be a very long time—it probably is—since any hon. Member actually received a weekly pay packet, but I put it to you, Mr. Speaker, that it is a very terrible moment for anybody opening a weekly pay packet to find inside a small notice which says: Thank you for the way in which you have served this company. After next Friday we shall not require your services. Today, and in the years immediately past, a man receiving such a notice might say to his wife, ""I am very sorry, my dear, but I have got the sack""—let us use words we understand. His wife might say, ""Well, it does not matter. There are so many jobs that if you set out on Monday you will easily get another."" But if we are not extremely careful that man, when he sets out on Monday, will find many thousands of men on the tramp, doing the same thing—looking for a job. That would be something which a working-class wife would understand only too well. She would realise that that was the start of something she had seen before, and something she feared. There is nothing like unemployment to degrade a man. For that reason, I believe that all hon. Members of this House should take every possible step to see that working men and women are not put in the position of being frightened to go to the little shop on the corner because they owe a   little on last week's bill and cannot pay it. We must protect working-class women from that and also try to prevent their husbands from having to come home week after week and face the question from their wives, ""Have you got a job yet?"", and, feeling unwanted, having to say, ""No, my dear, I have not."" If we allow party feeling to enter into this matter, we shall fail to protect the men and women of this country. If we are to save the country from dire unemployment, we must make sure that the trade unionists elect responsible people to high offices, and, having elected them, back them one hundred per cent. On the other hand, it is extremely necessary that the employers should gain the confidence of their employees by actions and not words. I suggest that if a General Election were to take place within a few days, every hon. Member would find time to stump up and down the country trying to win the Election battle. I feel that it is our duty, as Members of Parliament, to stump up and down the country to try to win the battle against inflation. If we do not win that battle, it will be no use hon. Members on either side of the House saying. ""We have scored a point; we have defeated the other side."" The people who will be defeated are the people we all wish to serve; the people who will suffer are our constituents. Tonight, I intend to vote for the Government, because I wish to make sure that my constituents, and the constituents of other hon. Members, will be safeguarded from unemployment. I appeal to the Leader of the Opposition to find it in his heart to advise the hon. Members who form his party to be sure that when they go to the country, making legitimate political points, they do not do anything which will wreck the ship of State or the well-being of the British people.
