gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am delighted to have caught your eye so soon after my arrival in the House, Mr. Deputy Speaker. It is fitting that I should have an opportunity to make my maiden speech during a debate about the recession, because it has hit my constituents very hard. I thank those hon. Members who worked so hard to ensure my election to the House and those hon. Members, on both sides of the House who welcomed me here and offered me advice about my maiden speech. The most common piece of advice was that I should ignore all advice and that is what I have chosen to do. I know that it is the convention of the House for a new Member to pay tribute to his predecessor. Even if that had not been the convention, I would have chosen to do so. I know that I speak for all hon. Members when I pay tribute to Norman Buchan, a man who was loved by many and respected by all. During his 26 years in the House, he touched the lives of many people here, in his constituency and elsewhere. He was a man of great principle, warmth and intellect and, as many hon. Members will know, before he entered the House he was a teacher. He used his great skills of communication to inspire and encourage others and I think that it is fair to say that he was always the teacher. Many hon. Members will also know that Norman Buchan had a passion for the arts, especially Scottish folk music. The most fitting tribute that I can pay him is to quote from a song about him. It is in characteristic dialect, but that enriches it rather than detracts from it. ""He's a fighter, he's a dancer He's freedom's greatest fanWhen the chips are doonYon Buchan loonWee Norman is your man."" That is how many of us remember him. The constituency of Paisley, South, which I have inherited from Norman Buchan, needed and needs the kind of representation that he provided, because it is a microcosm of industrial Scotland and the problems that beset it. I have lived in the constituency all my life and I started work there too. I remember the bus journey that I used to take from my home town of Johnstone to my work in Paisley early every morning. It was quite a job to get on a bus 15 years ago. The streets were throbbing and bustling with people all going to work in the mills and the large factories. A school leaver taking that same bus journey today would see decay, dereliction and despondency. Paisley is famous for the Paisley pattern. It is known throughout the world and it was at the forefront of the textile industry which employed many thousands of people from the town and surrounding areas. Now it employs no more than a few hundred. The massive mills that once housed those thousands of workers now stand as idle and rotting monuments of the industrial decline that we have seen during the past decade. It is sad and shameful that there is no large-scale manufacture of any Paisley pattern goods in the town of Paisley. My right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Monklands, East (Mr. Smith) referred to the need for partnership; the need to explore new markets, to invest in research and development and in export drives. There is great potential there for that. There is also in the constituency the village of Elderslie, the birthplace of the Scottish patriot, William Wallace. It is also the home of Stoddards, the carpet manufacturer which produces some of the highest quality carpets in the world. I am sure that those carpets grace some of the corridors of this place. Johnstone, my home town, also has a rich industrial heritage. It was the home of the first machine tool foundry in the world. It trained men who could twist and turn metal at will into useful components. Unfortunately, that is no longer the case, because no major factory does such work any longer. When I was considering material for my maiden speech I referred to the maiden speech made by my predecessor in 1964. In that speech, Norman Buchan referred to the new industrial complex of Rootes and Pressed Steel, which is now in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Renfrew, West and Inverclyde (Mr. Graham). That, too, has now closed and many people who lost their jobs there have never worked since. Those people have been stripped of the dignity of being able to make their full contribution to society and to the economy. Male unemployment in the constituency was 11·7 per cent. in October. That meant that 2,754 people competed for 420 jobs, many of which were low-paid and part-time. As my hon. Friend the Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams) said, in the past few weeks we have seen the closure of the Howdens factory in Renfrew, once a market leader in the production of equipment for renewable energy—something which is taking off all over the world in these days when environmentally friendly products are all the rage. That factory closed, making 500 people redundant, because there was none of the investment in research and development and export drives which Howdens' competitors received from their Governments. However, I must pay tribute to the regeneration of the economy by the local authorities, the Scottish Development Agency and some of the business community in Renfrew district. We see the lunar landscape of the Talbot factory being regenerated to breathe new life into the area. It has been turned into a retail industrial and residential development and that is welcome. Renfrew district, and Paisley in particular, is bidding to make our area the home of Scotland's national stadium. If any Conservative Member would like some advice on how to stay out of Europe, I am sure that such advice could be obtained from the supporters of St. Mirren. It would be only natural for that national stadium to come to the home of St. Mirren. In conclusion, I want to make a suggestion that would have a major social and economic impact in my constituency. In 1979, when the Government took office, 34 per cent. of Renfrew district's housing budget was paid by the Exchequer in the form of a housing support grant. We have not had a housing support grant for many years. If that grant were restored to its former level of 34 per cent., £11 million would be put into the local economy which would improve homes, reduce homelessness, create jobs and stimulate the local economy.
