gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with some trepidation because, like my hon. Friend the Member for Epping (Mr. Newens) and the hon. Member for Wanstead and Woodford (Mr. Patrick Jenkin), this is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing this House. If I err, I beg that you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, and the House will forgive any mistakes I make. One mistake I thought I might make was that of being controversial in my maiden speech but, in view of the fact that the right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) in the debate on the Address asked my right hon. Friend for this Bill and that he now has got this Bill, it would be exceedingly difficult for any hon. Member to be controversial about it. There are two conventions which I wish to follow. They are useful conventions, because they serve to introduce an hon. Member to this House. The first is to mention to the House my predecessor. I am not paying lip-service to convention when I say that Mr. Arthur Holt was a   most valuable hon. Member occupying a seat on the second bench below the Gangway opposite which in the past had not so great numbers as it has today. He was a most respected hon. Member and worked hard for his constituency. Above all, I found him throughout and after a very hard-fought campaign a gentleman in the highest sense of that word. The people of Bolton, West are Lancashire folk. They are known for being straightforward, for acting straightforwardly and for speaknig straightforwardly. One thing which they detest is any relationship between individuals whereby someone is put at a disadvantage, and that is why I feel that I should rise to address the House on this Bill. I am proud and honoured to represent Bolton. It is a town, as my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, East (Mr. Robert Howarth) made reference to last week, which was in the forefront of the Industrial Revolution. Like many towns of that nature, it is now left with the problems of housing, slum clearance and urban renewal. We in the North often feel that although we make most of the money and produce most of the wealth of this country we see very little of either as far as amenities are concerned. One of the problems, of course, is this question of housing and rent. Neighbourliness is a great virtue in Bolton. The people of Bolton believe in the right of a family to have a home, and to have that home without fear. That is what the Bill sets out to do for the people of this country. I think that my right hon. Friend was rather modest when introducing the Bill. He said, of course, that it was a temporary Measure and an emergency Measure. And indeed it is. An hon. Member opposite—I think it was the hon. Member for the Isle of Thanet (Mr. Rees-Davies)—asked during the course of my right hon. Friend's speech whether this problem did not only exist in the large cities. Clearly it does not, because my hon. Friend the Member for Epping (Mr. Newens) gave some graphic descriptions for what is happening in his part of the world. Only yesterday morning I received a letter from a constituent of mine who is facing the very problem that the Bill sets out to eliminate. He is an un-  protected tenant and has received from the landlord notice to quit and a demand for an increase in rent, and that has happened between 16th October when the present Government were elected and yesterday. It is quite clear, therefore, that in all parts of the country there are unscrupulous landlords trying to obtain possession of their premises before major legislation is brought in. I said that my right hon. Friend was modest because the Bill sets out the proposition that no one shall be evicted from a house unless a court order is obtained. In other words, I consider that it is a major feat of social legislation. It takes us a great deal further, as far as England and Wales are concerned, than any other legislation has done. As my right hon. Friend said, we are bringing the position of this part of the country up to the more advanced position that exists in Scotland, because in the matter of law Scotland has frequently been far ahead and far more progressive than England and Wales. I think that that is true throughout the history of legal reform in this country. What the Bill really sets out to do is this. It says that unilateral action by either party in a dispute about something so precious and vital as a home shall not be taken, that there must be an independent source to decide between the parties and that that independent source should be a properly trained, qualified, impartial judge. That is all it seeks to do. A good landlord, as has rightly been said, has nothing whatsoever to fear from the Bill. He has no more to fear from it than an honest citizen need fear from the Larceny Act. The Bill is aimed at the unscrupulous, at those who put personal profit and private greed above social need. It is aimed at those landlords who dare not go before a court of law because they have no right and justice on their side. It introduces penal provisions. It forbids a landlord to submit a tenant to physical violence, mental torture or worse. Some landlords still very often harass their tenants by the deprivation of services. When a landlord does any of these things it is a criminal offence against the persons who are tenants and against society in general, and he deserves to be dealt with as a criminal by a criminal court and to be subject to a fine not exceeding £100 or six   months' imprisonment, or both, as laid down in the Bill. Mention has been made by the right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames, of the question of furnished lettings. Really, hon. Members must realise that if the Bill tried to define what is a furnished letting that could very well kill the Bill. I am quite certain that that is not the intention of the right hon. Gentleman. How much furniture in a letting makes it a furnished letting? Would not such an escape clause be the very thing which would enable an unscrupulous landlord to evade the provisions of the Bill? Therefore, although it may be, as has been suggested, a little rough, nevertheless, I ask my right hon. Friend that the provisions should remain as they are, because the more complex the Bill becomes the more possible it is for those who are unscrupulous to try to escape its provisions. The question of the tied cottage was also raised. Let hon. Members be quite clear that this is a major break-through. It is a problem that has concerned the House for nearly 100 years. The Bill states that the landlord of a tied cottage shall go before the county court in order to obtain possession. He did not have to do this under the provisions of the Rent Acts passed before the war. This is a most welcome break-through as far as agricultural labourers are concerned. An hon. Member opposite asked about those not included in the Bill. There are some, of course. If he would like to introduce an Amendment in Committee stating that certain other tenants who are service tenants should be included in the Bill, I think that it would be welcomed from both sides. There is one matter in the Bill which I somewhat regret, and I think that my right hon. Friend regrets it too. I think that the House can forgive the fact—because the Bill is a temporary Measure—that Clause 3(2) still allows local authorities to proceed under an Act of Parliament passed in 1838. That Act is not only Victorian; it was passed during the very first year of Queen Victoria's reign, and it affects millions of local authority tenants in the country. Many hon. Members, I think, will be aware—some will not—of the enormous  power which that gives to a local authority. What happens in effect is this. If a local authority makes a complaint to a magistrates' court, not a county court, then the magistrates sitting in that court really have no choice whatsoever but to give possession to the local authority. That, I believe offends in three ways. The magistrates have no power whatsoever. They have no discretion, no matter how bad the case may be as far as the tenant is concerned. No matter how desperately the tenant needs the house, the magistrates cannot do anything but give possession to the local authority. I have been a member of a local authority for 12 years. I know that, on the whole, local authorities are extremely careful before they apply their enormous power in this regard, but I still say to the House that that power is wrong and that the sooner local authorities are brought in line with the provisions of the Bill which demand that the landlord, be it a local authority or not, shall go to a county court, the better. It offends for three reasons. First, the principle of the Bill is that, before any eviction takes place, the tenant shall have the right to be heard in a county court and the case be determined impartially. Secondly, it is and always has been a principle of English law that justice must not only be done but must manifestly be seen to be done. Under the 1838 Act it is manifestly seen not to be done. Thirdly, when the prosecution is bound to win the court listening to the case must be held in some contempt by the public, because the magistrates have no power to determine anything, no matter how they may feel. I hope that my right hon. Friend will deal with that anomaly in the major Bill. I think that the House could forgive him for not trying to complicate this very brief, precise, important and effective Bill. I wish to emulate the Bill and be concise and then sit down. I thank the House for listening to me so very courteously. It has turned what could very well have been an ordeal into a pleasure.
