gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to speak for the first time here, I ask for the indulgence which the House kindly extends on these occasions. I am glad to have been so fortunate as to catch your eye, Mr. Speaker,   because my last post in the Foreign Service was in our Embassy in one of the countries which is now becoming a member of this new Association. My work there included preparations and negotiations for a Free Trade Area. I am glad also that I have the opportunity of speaking on a foreign affairs subject which is not a main issue of contention between the two sides of the House, though after two or three of the interesting speeches I have heard today I cannot be too sure of that. But it is appropriate for me that it should not be contentious, because I have had the pleasure of working for hon. and right hon. Members opposite, particularly during the time when I was a member of our permanent delegation to the United Nations, and I think that I worked most harmoniously with them. My duties at that time were to give them all the assistance within my power and, when appropriate, to tender advice. I understand that in my new rôle here I must forgo the privilege of carrying out the first of these functions, but it is still open to me to try my hand at the second, namely, when appropriate, offering advice. I know, however, that I cannot expect any increased likelihood of the advice being accepted. I will not conceal my regret that the original concept of a free trade area did not come to life. I should like to be the first publicly to congratulate my right hon. Friend the Member for Monmouth (Mr. Thorneycroft) on his declaration today of paternity of that original scheme. Certainly in the summer of 1956, when it was clear in Europe that Britain was putting forward this idea as its chief promoter, our friends in Europe rejoiced. They had had the picture, unfortunatey, of a Britain which was dragging along and would eventually come into association with Europe when she had to. That Free Trade Area would have associated us and other European countries with the six countries of the Common Market without requiring us to proceed to the economic integration upon which they seemed determined. There were difficulties, of course, but the advantages to all concerned were great. It was no fault of Britain's, in my opinion, that that Free Trade Area did not reach fruition. I will not pursue the question now of where to place the  blame, but I think that the Government were right, when they found that the project was not being attained and time was running against them, to go for the next best thing which is an association of seven countries. It will bring the Seven into step with the Six of the European Economic Community in the agreed and orderly reduction of tariffs within the next ten years. Although I know that several hon. Members disagree, the most important point, to my mind, is that the Convention improves the position with a view to negotiating an association with the Six. I agree with other hon. Members that we cannot allow a division of Europe to take place. It may be asked what advantages there are for Britain in this Association, in our agreement with six neighbours to reduce trade barriers over the next ten years. The answer lies in the extended and simpified markets which it makes available. As a trading nation we must seize any new opportunities to expand markets. There is no doubt that most of our industries stood to benefit from the Free Trade Area project, and I consider that they will still benefit, to a lesser extent albeit, from this new Association. I am particularly thinking of Scotland when I say this, because we in Scotland need the increased industrial activity that expansion of trade can bring. There are two or three industries in Scotland which do not see any advantage in this agreement and which may in practice find difficulties with it. I hope that the assurances we have had from the Government on these will prove well-founded. But if it is granted that the majority of industries will benefit from the agreement and therefore that the nation will benefit as a whole, the community comes under some obligation to look after industries which may suffer through no fault of their own. Those last words are important, because I am not suggesting that inefficiency should be protected nor that changes made necessary in the modern world should be postponed. I am glad to see that Article 20 of the Convention provides for action to be taken if there are difficulties in certain sectors of industry. I hope that in that event the Government will take adequate action under that Article. There is one industry with which I should like to deal   as an example, since it very much affects my constituency. This is the fishing industry. There are Press reports that representatives of the trawlers have already made it clear that they are disturbed about this agreement. There are no trawlers in Moray and Nairn. The fishermen there are inshore fishermen in smaller boats. They are busy at their jobs and I am not sure that they and their representatives have had time yet to get down to looking at the effects of the agreement. The fishermen of the East Coast of Scotland, whom I know, work tremendously hard, with unexampled cheerfulness, at a very tough job; and we have recently been reminded of the dangerous conditions in which they work. In the last twenty years they have modernised their boats and their methods. They have acquired the experience, knowledge, and skill required first to find the fish and then to catch them with these modern methods, and they have provided us with the fresh fish which perhaps we are inclined to take for granted. If the imports of fish from Scandinavia, which this agreement permits, cause a setback to the industry, through no fault of its own, I urge that special consideration be given by the community, through the Government, to a remedy or recompense. It may be that we should all eat much more fish, but if one looks at the figures of consumption in the past, of the amount of fish caught and of the new quantities coming in, I can see why the representatives of the trawlers have been disturbed. Perhaps if we all remember that the phosphorous in fish is good for the development of the brain, that information spread widely may help us all in this country to eat more fish. The working of the Convention will require a great deal of co-operation and confidence between the parties and I hope, like many other hon. Members, that a way will quickly be found of associating with the six countries. A lot has been said about making a bridge. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham, Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins) does not like clichés so I will move from that and suggest that what is needed is a filling in of the whole length of the moat between the two areas in Europe. I realise that it is not easy to suggest solutions  today, but the importance remains of getting the two parts together. Whilst the difficulties of certain industries must be considered, we in Britain should not shrink from further steps to form in Western Europe a large market for our goods. I believe that this need not harm our friends. It can be done in a way which need not harm our friends in the Commonwealth, though they must be closely consulted all the time. Co-ordinated progress in this direction can benefit the people of our country as a whole, both as producers and as consumers.
