gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing the House for the first time, it is customary to ask for indulgence. I think I must be almost the last Member left who has not made a maiden speech. I am anxious to speak in this Debate, because the constituency which I have the honour to represent is a fishing port. It is not one of the largest ports, but fishing is our oldest industry, and is of great importance to the prosperity of the town. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South-port (Mr. R. S. Hudson) has said a good deal about ships, prices and other matters of very great importance, but very little, if anything, about men, and the interests of the men who work in the fishing industry. We know that this is one of the hardest and most hazardous of occupations, but the right hon. Gentle man, while recognising that there is a shortage of manpower, did not deal with the problems to be faced if a sufficient number of men are to be attracted to the industry. He asked the Government a number of questions, which appeared to me to suggest that the Government are responsible for all the troubles in the industry. I suggest that many of the problems go back long before the war, and that if we wish to put this industry on its feet, we must deal not only with the problems which have arisen since the war, but with those of long standing. Prewar days were not halycon days for the fishing industry. The numbers of men and ships were declining, and unemployment was high. I have been looking up some of the figures in the official records, and, taking the three years before the war, I find that, in 1935, the percentage of insured persons who were unemployed varied from 18 to 28 per cent., in 1936 to 1937, from 17 to 29 per cent., and, in 1938, from 22 to 32 per cent. When one looks at the number of men and ships, the profits and the rate of the unemployment, it must be acknowledged that the industry was not doing well in the days before the war. No one will deny that it is necessary that the demand for fish should be increased but I am not going to deal with the question of prices. I am not speaking only of the present time when food is in such short supply, but am also taking the long view, in saying that we should increase our consumption of fish, than which there is no more valuable food. If an expanding demand is to be   met, the industry must expand. If the industry is to expand, more men must be attracted into it. To do that, conditions-must be improved. In that matter, 1 suggest that the owners have a great responsibility. There are two or three things which I think are of great importance if men are to be attracted into the industry. One is the question of security. I, and other HON. MEMBERS, have been told that the Essential Work Order is unpopular with both the owners and the men. I have no doubt that it is un-popular with the owners, but my information is not to the effect that it is unpopular with the men. The men quite possibly dislike being directed to particular ships, but, on the other hand, so long as the Essential Work Order remains, the men have a guaranteed wage when ashore of IOS. a day, which is something worth having. I believe that wage is higher than the wage that the men got when at sea in the days before the war. The Essential Work Order does give that security which is so necessary to the industry if men are to be attracted into it. The second thing is wages. The public are inclined to believe that fishermen are earning wages of an astronomical amount, but the average wage of the fishermen— I am speaking of the deck hands and men in the engine room— taking into account the very long hours of work, sometimes 22 out of the 24, and the conditions under which they live, is not high enough. I understand that discussions are taking place with a view to the possibility of setting up national negotiating machinery for the industry. I hope that it will be set up and that as a result wages will be improved. As to living conditions, I have been on a number of trawlers and I have been appalled at the conditions in some of them. The men require much better accommodation. In particular, they are asking that accommodation should be aft, with separate cabins for eating and sleeping, and proper facilities for washing— not merely a bucket in the engineroom— proper facilities for storing food and clothes, and other amenities. I believe that it is not possible to make consider able improvements in that direction in the old trawlers, but they could be made in the new trawlers. I understand that some of the new trawlers have better living conditions, but that others have not,  and I am not certain whether the improvements that have been made are adequate. I ask the Government to consider whether the licensing system could be used for imposing a standard of living conditions in the new trawlers as they are built. They have to be licensed by the Board of Trade only at present in respect of sea worthiness. Would it not be possible to set up a standard of living conditions and enforce that standard through the licensing system? These are the three things which I believe are of the very greatest importance in the industry, security, pay, and living conditions, if we are to attract a sufficient number of men into this vital industry and so enable it to expand. The fishermen have served the community well— no one has served it better in peace or war. It is up to us now to carry out the very great obligations which the whole community have towards these men.
