gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with a sense of high respect for the traditions of this House, becoming to a Member addressing it for the first time. I am deeply conscious, sitting for the Epping division of Essex, of the distinguished Parliamentary representative lineage to which I have succeeded, which includes  the present Leader of the Government, the Prime Minister of England. This debate has had a great number of acid, hard, contentious remarks made in it which I find difficult to curb myself from answering, but I shall on this occasion try to steer myself away from the perilous seas of contention into the quieter lagoons of objective argument. The Chancellor's introductory remarks on Tuesday referred to the fact that we are a nation of 50 million people living in a small island, dependent for our lives upon food supplies nearly half of which come from abroad, as do most of our raw materials and practically all our petroleum. That is something which has been touched upon by hon. Members from time to time I want to direct my remarks to what seem to me to be the major facets which revolve around that particular proposition. We have heard a certain amount about the mines. Not long before the last General Election, I fought in a mining constituency. In fact, I fought in the constituency of the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan). I say this with decision: I want to see the miners become a crack coal-getting force, well paid, living in decent surroundings and getting the coal which the nation so badly needs. I look forward to a revolution in mining technique—which has been foreshadowed in the remarks of the Chairman of the National Coal Board—assisted by all the contrivances of effective modern research, with manpower assisted by skilled technicians and with fewer men doing their work underground as technical progress proceeds. I realise that wages in the mining industry must be related to the rate of recruiting. I realise, too, that they must be related to output. These are difficult principles to reconcile. I know there is a shortage of some vital machines, such as coal cutters, strippers and underground haulage equipment, and I hope that these shortages will be remedied. There is a need, too, for greater efficiency in coal-burning arrangements in British industry. At present there is a prodigious waste of our most precious raw materials, and my hon. Friend the Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Nabarro) has put forward some constructive suggestions on this topic to   which I hope my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will give attention when he is framing his Budget this year. He can do so by way of concessions in the shape of allowances for the installation of fuel-saving equipment. Turning to the question of food, the loss of fertile acres through the land development which has been taking place is a serious matter. The President of the National Farmers' Union has drawn attention to this in grave terms. It amounts to something like 50,000 acres a year. At the present rate, in 20 years' time we shall have lost fertile land to the equivalent of half the wheat crops of this country—and all this means the loss of foodstuffs which we must import, and increases our economic difficulties. It is indeed a dangerous trend for a country as vulnerable as Britain. I turn next to the vital issue of emigration. The fundamental strategic and economic vulnerability of the people of this island is apparent from the lack of balance in the distribution of population and of industry, when we consider the great spaces of Canada and Australia and their small populations. Dispersion is essential in order to preserve our security and our economy. The Commonwealth economic and military potential, if fully developed, is, in my submission, greater than that of the United States of America or the U.S.S.R. The United States of America changed her whole character between 1865, when she was a country of only 30 million inhabitants, and today, when she has a great industrial population of 150 million; and I believe that the British Commonwealth can do the same. In that single factor resides hope for the future, and I welcome the initiative of His Majesty's Government in seeking a Commonwealth conference at the highest level to discuss the subject. The vulnerability of this country is dangerous, with possible atomic assault on our ports, and vulnerability, in particular, to sub-marines. We are spending vast sums on defence, and we could economise by deploying some of our strategic strength, some of our industrial strength and some of our manpower An increasing population means an increasing dependence on food imports. We can support only something like 41 million people in this country on adequate  standards of life and comfort. If large-scale emigration could be successfully accomplished, there would be no need to build new towns on good agricultural land. In my constituency there is Harlow, the largest of the designated new towns in England. On paper, 80,000 people are to occupy 6,000 acres of good fertile agricultural land. That land would not be taken if we had emigration organised on a bigger, better and more effective scale. I realise that this is a long-term programme, but I think it is fundamental. Large-scale emigration is the best way of adjusting the British economy to the facts of British economic life. Our objective is to create the strongest and most united association of free nations in the world. The Commonwealth countries are crying out for settlers of the right type. Australia wants a population of 20 to 30 million in contrast to her present 8 to 9 million. In 1951, 42,000 sponsored emigrants left this country for Australia, and only an infinitesimal number returned because the experience did not suit them. Not only human beings, but industry, too, should be dispersed. I appreciate the difficulties involved—the difficulties of transport, housing and loss of industrial plant; but at the same time I suggest that the circumstances demand that these problems be settled in a spirit of acute urgency by resolute and concerted action by every British Commonwealth Government, so that the result may be an effective pooling of resources and ideas. There is a high moral issue involved in paying one's way. In this country in the past we have invariably enjoyed a sturdy, rugged spirit of independence. The other day I received in my mail—and I was delighted to receive it—an open letter addressed to the Prime Minister from a federation of independent business men of the United States of America. It was an open letter to the Prime Minister, in which they said: We greatly admire your open and brief statement that you do not intend to liquidate the British Empire. It must be just as apparently understood that independent business people of the United States do not intend that you should liquidate the United States of America. Some right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite have suggested that we are becoming the 49th State of the United   States, but apparently we are terrifying the Americans, and that heartens me very much! I am certain we shall be able to assure our friends in America that we have no such intentions, but that we will promote by every possible means a Britain standing independent in the world with her Commonwealth of Nations, and paying her own way.
