gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, and the indulgence of hon. Members for this maiden speech. If it is not presumptuous for me, I should like to express the appreciation of all hon. Members to the hon. Member for Southall (Mr. Pargiter), who proposed the Motion, and the hon. Member for Enfield, East (Mr. Ernest Davies), who seconded it, for the very moderate manner and the reasonable and reasoned arguments which they put forward in its support. I wish to confine my remarks to that part of the Motion which relates to road accidents and to the state of the roads at present and which, therefore, relates road safety to road improvements. I would say at once that I am not convinced that road improvements, as they are generally known—improvements which would increase the convenience and the speed of traffic—are necessarily improvements which would increase safety. Before developing the contrary argument to that, may I refer to two points in the Motion, which I do not think further the case put forward by the hon. Member for Southall. The first point was that 70 per cent. of goods traffic now use the roads. That seems to me a very sound argument for spending money on some other form of transport system. In this country we have a highly developed system of railways, and if money could be spent on them to attract at least a large part of that 70 per cent. of goods transport which is using the roads, then it might be money well spent from the point of view of the safety of our roads. The second point which I do not think furthers the hon. Member's case is the statement that expenditure on the roads is only one-tenth of the proceeds of transport taxation. I was glad he did not use the argument that is so frequently used, that Purchase Tax on motor vehicles must be added in order to judge what the motoring public pays. That argument has always seemed to me rather like saying that Purchase Tax on mink coats must be used in order to improve the breeding of minks. The argument that motor fuel tax should be used solely for the motoring public is also as fallacious. It is a national revenue, and one might as well say that the tobacco tax should be used to improve pipes and cigarettes. The real comparison is the £33 million spent on roads out of the Road Fund, and the £65 million collected by motor vehicle taxation for the Road Fund. That, as the hon. Member for Southall has said, is not the whole story, because there is some £50 million or so collected from the ratepayers. If the motoring public are saying that all the money collected from them must be spent on the roads, then the general body of ratepayers have a strong argument in pointing to the £50 million collected from them for the use of the roads. I do not think that the argument about the volume of traffic on the roads, nor that about the expenditure of the money collected from the motoring public furthers the case for more expenditure on the roads. That does not mean that the case is not a good one for the expenditure of more money on the roads. It is undoubtedly a good one, provided that the money is spent in a proper way and that proper priorities are considered. That brings me to my main point. I understand that the present policy of Her Majesty's Government is to expend any extra grants on curing black spots and trying to remedy those places where accidents have occurred and where there is an obvious danger. I urge that policy to be continued as a matter of priority, and that absolute priority should be given to eliminate the danger spots. If that is done I can see no justification for improvements to the roads, which merely increase the speed or convenience of motor traffic. I am not   impressed by the argument so frequently put forward that the autobahnen in Germany reduce accidents by 80 per cent. That, in fact, was a misreading of the evidence which was before the Select Committee. That evidence was that accidents on the autobahnen were 17 per cent. of the motoring miles as compared with the accidents on the old State roads in Germany. It was not a reduction of 80 per cent. in the accident total. What is impressive about the autobahnen in Germany is that it was necessary to place a speed limit on them, and that was done because of the frighteningly high rate of accidents. The same has happened with the super-highways in America. In the case of the Pennsylvanian Turnpike it was necessary even to reduce the speed limit which was placed on that road, and on the Jersey Turnpike, which is described as America's most modern super-highway, a speed limit has been necessary. Coming nearer home I should like to refer to the arterial roads in or around London, to which the hon. Member for Southall has referred. Here the same principle applies. I suppose it would be considered that roads like the Great West Road and the North Circular Road are improvements as compared with the older, more congested and narrow roads through the suburbs. But it is questionable whether they are safer for all road users. In fact, the arterial roads through built-up areas which are de-restricted are those roads on which the accident rate is at present terrifyingly high. As a result, safety measures have had to be introduced on them, which have had the effort of impeding traffic and as such they would not be considered by some as road improvements. Two improvements come to mind at once. One is the Medway Parade at Ealing on the Great West Road, where over a period of 2½ years 32 people were injured, and four of that number were fatalities. Only after loss of life and limb, and after public demonstrations by protest marches up and down the road were traffic lights with press button installed. The result has been extremely gratifying. The accidents since then have merely been minor ones of one vehicle bumping into the back of another as they stop at the lights, which perhaps is salutary. The other and more recent example was on the North Circular Road at Willesden, where again, after a number of fatalities and a public demonstration of protest marches up and down the road, three sets of press button lights have been installed. They have not been installed for long, so one cannot give figures, but by an inspection of the road, it is easy tosee it has thereby been made much safer. It is regrettable that lives have to be lost and that this undignified method of protest march has to be adopted before these improved roads can be made safe. I make this as no party point because, in the case of the Medway Parade, it was the previous administration which was, so to speak, bullied into providing the safety measure by the protest march. In the other case of the North Circular Road it was this administration. The conclusion which I want hon. Members to draw from this is that improvements, as they are usually known, do not increase safety but make it all the more necessary to intensify safety measures. It is unfortunate from the point of view of improvements for the convenience and safety of traffic that, if we increase speed, we increase accidents and that if we reduce speed, we reduce accidents. It is unfortunate from the economic point of view, but it is perfectly true. Therefore, if there are to be improvements to surface, width and straightness of roads, we must be prepared to submit to greater safety and disciplinary devices. And not only on the improved roads. Hon. Members will know from personal experience the tendency, when one has been driving along a good road and approaches a built up area or a town, not to reduce speed to the level which is necessary for safety through that built up area. Two good examples come to mind, Markyate on the Watling Street and Great Missenden in Bucks. Both are cases of villages with very narrow streets tortured by immense industrial traffic and approached by good roads either side. The traffic does not slacken pace sufficiently as it passes through those built up areas because of the speed encouraged on either side. While, therefore, I am not obstructing the expenditure of more money on the roads, I want it to be realised that   improvements which increase maximum speed make it all the more necessary to intensify the safety devices, not only on those roads, not only the adjoining roads in built up areas, but also by impressing upon the drivers a higher standard of driving and of vehicles. If we are to have better roads, we must at the same time have better drivers and better vehicles. If there is to be greater expenditure on the roads, it must be coupled with severe treatment of the bad driver and of the defective vehicle. Get them both off the road, the one by suspension of licence and the other by confiscation of the vehicle. This conflict between convenience and safety goes to the root of our administration of the roads in this country. By its very name the Ministry of Transport is concerned mainly, and should be concerned mainly, with providing an economically efficient transport system. That may be quite contrary to a safe transport system; that is to say, safety may be sacrificed to motor traffic convenience. I have often felt that the admirable Road Safety Committee of the Ministry of Transport might do much better work if it were independent of that Ministry. After all, road safety is not a matter only for the Ministry of Transport—the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, and the Home Office are all concerned with road safety. If that Road Safety Committee were a more independent body, perhaps advice could be sought from it and given by it to other Ministries. If the long-term plan proposed by the hon. Member for Southall could be placed before an independent committee of that type, advice could be given purely from the point of view of road safety. If that advice were given, I am sure it would be something on these lines: that since 78 per cent. of all accidents occur in built-up areas, let us concentrate first on those built-up areas and on the black spots in those areas upon this principle, first to keep the traffic flow steady at a moderate and uniform rate and, secondly, to make suitable provision for pedestrians. The first aim of keeping the traffic flow steady at a uniform rate can be achieved  by improvements to road junctions. I am thinking more of the road junctions in the centre and using London as an example. Ludgate Circus, the Elephant and Castle, Knightsbridge and Hammersmith Broadway are all places in which there could be great improvement in increasing the steady flow of traffic. The aim could also be achieved by removing bottlenecks, one of which that comes to mind at once is at the end of the Strand. I have used London examples, but no doubt hon. Members have many in their own constituencies. The second aim is to provide for the pedestrians and I am not thinking so much of the crossings as the provision of refuges and the widening of pavements, if necessary by cutting back the frontages into arcades, where pedestrians in busy shopping areas are forced into the road, thereby impeding the traffic and increasing the danger to themselves. I hope the Government will be able to accept this Motion. I express this hope, not because I want to see motor ways take the place of the railways, but because I want to see an end of this tragic loss of life by delay in the installation of road safety devices, a delay which is caused by the lack of funds and perhaps by proper considerations of economy on the part of the Ministry. It is false economy, because if the figure given by the hon. Gentleman of £150 million lost on road accidents a year is right, then £100,000 was lost on the Medway Parade before a comparatively small sum was spent on the installation of traffic lights there. If this long-term plan is adopted, the Ministry might be set fairly free to instal such safety measures and end the procrastination in the installation of its life saving devices. So I join with the hon. Member for Southall in pleading with the Government to accept this Motion and to go further than the escape phrase of ""giving consideration"" and to lay down priorities. These are the priorities for which I ask: first, to eliminate the black spots, and as these black spots are mainly in the built-up areas, and as 78 per cent. of the accidents occur in built-up areas, to concentrate the work there first. Then, when possible, we should construct and improve roads outside the built-up areas, and finally realise that it will be necessary to intensify safety precautions both on   those roads and adjoining roads and in connection with the drivers and vehicles. I am indeed most grateful to the House for so patiently listening to this first speech of mine.
