gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech. I hope that I shall be forgiven for the somewhat indecent haste in which I am losing my parliamentary virginity. On this occasion at least my remarks will be fairly brief. I understand that it is one of the traditions of this House for an hon. Member making his maiden speech to pay tribute to his predecessor. I am in the somewhat unusual position in that he was also my Member of Parliament for many years during which time I got to know him reasonably well. We had many political differences, but he is a gentleman for whom I have great respect and for whom I believe this House has great respect. He has now gone to a warmer climate in Bermuda, for which I envy him, where he is now Governor-General. However, he has not entirely severed his connection with me because my mother came from Bermuda and he will find amongst his subjects, if that is the correct word, many members of my family. I hope that at the moment he is not feeling too uncomfortable there. I gather that it is also the convention on these occasions to talk a little about one's constituency. In view of the comments which have been made in the national Press, I hasten to assure hon. Members that they are in no great danger of getting their feet wet from the parish pump, though after the events of last Thursday there are those who may be suffering some storm damage in the relatively near future. Sutton and Cheam is very much a commuter constituency having problems of the sort which are peculiar to such constituencies. One special problem that I ought to mention is that resulting from the way in which successive Governments have allowed public transport to decline. This is causing great difficulty to my constituents and to many others in outer London. Perhaps I shall not depart from convention too much if I venture to comment that the people of Sutton and Cheam do not have to walk 400 yards in the rain to realise that we have a traffic problem. I intend to press for a reversal of this trend where enormous subsidies are made to private transport. I want to see the emphasis put back on to public transport, where it belongs. In my constituency we have a much higher than normal number of old-age pensioners. I was surprised to read in the course of the by-election campaign that my constituency lay in a blue chip stockbroker belt. It is often thought that Sutton and Cheam is a relatively wealthy  part of the country. However, I was astounded and distressed during the by-election campaign to see the poverty in which many old-age pensioners live in Sutton, never mind other parts of the country. I shall be pressing for a realistic pensions policy which will tie pensions to average national earnings so that pensions are not left behind with pensioners having to rely on the sort of charity that we saw in the week of the by-election. Much as I welcomed the Christmas bonus which was paid to our old-age pensioners, it smacked of poor law charity. I come now to the motion, which is concerned with industrial policy. There is very little industry in Sutton and Cheam, and no ships have been built there for many years. As a result there is not a great deal that I can say about shipbuilding. I have no personal experience of the subject. However in Sutton and Cheam there is considerable concern, as there is throughout the country, about the lack of economic growth and investment. There is the feeling that unless the chaos resulting from confrontation that we have seen for far too long in industry is brought to an end soon, there is little hope for realistic investment. When the Opposition were in power they failed totally to get to grips with these problems. Now it seems that they adopt the attitude that the unions are right whatever they do or say. That kind of attitude is scarcely credible in the circumstances. Certainly it is not credible to the people of Sutton and Cheam. The Prime Minister and his colleagues do not impress the people of Sutton and Cheam either. They do not help the situation when they harp on the theory—and it is only a theory—that all our problems are due to excessive strikes and the unreasonable trade unions. The overwhelming majority of trade unionists are not unreasonable people. There are many of them in Sutton and Cheam. I know personally that they are extremely reasonable people who are very much concerned about the state of the country. The Industrial Relations Act, which the Liberal Party has always thought was irrelevant to the real problems in industry, has been seen to be a total failure. This is seen in Sutton and Cheam too. I sincerely believe—I stressed this point time and again during the by-election—   that the only real answer to our economic and industrial problems in the long term is to adopt the Liberal policy for a new industrial charter which will bring a partnership rather than confrontation to our industry. Until we can bring about this feeling of well-being in industry, there will be no lasting hope for worthwhile investment. I expect that hon. Members have heard it said from these benches before, but I repeat that I should like to see a partnership between capital and labour in industry. Both are equally important. Industry cannot survive on capital alone. Equally, it cannot survive on labour alone. The two are of equal importance. Our law should recognise their equal importance. It does not at present. These are the kind of amendments for which I shall continue to press. I should like to see a relationship in which management and employees work together as a team rather than as a wrestling match, which is the present situation. I want employees to be granted equal rights with shareholders of sharing the profits of the concerns to which they devote most of their working lives. I want them to have equal rights in the election of directors, for instance, and in the administration of the company to which, I repeat, they give most of their working lives. This is an investment at least as considerable as that of the shareholders and it should be recognised by the law. I should like to see works councils set up in all companies and industries in this country. I believe that would be a more worthwhile contribution to industrial well-being than the Industrial Relations Act. We would have the opportunity of making employees feel themselves to be part of the concerns to which they devote a major part of their lives. It is only by adopting such policies that we will get to grips with our economic problems. Until the whole country can feel that it is working together as a team, we shall not get the confidence that is needed to obtain the investment which we so desperately need. I said that on this occasion I would make a brief speech. I cannot promise that that will be so in future. Finally, I bring a plea from the people of Sutton and Cheam—many of whom  I met in the rain recently—to stop the bickering between capital and labour and between their representatives in this Chamber and to get on and work together to create a climate in our industry which puts an end to the present wrestling match and brings together labour and management working as a team.
