gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In the short time during which I have been a Member of the House I have learned two things about maiden speeches—first, that by tradition they should be short and uncontroversial and, second, that it is customary to pay tribute to one's predecessors. As the Member for Luton, East I am deeply conscious of the high standards of public service set by the Members of both parties who have represented the constituency. For many years, Luton,  East formed part of the old constituency of Luton and my constituents were represented by Dr. Charles Hill, the ""Radio Doctor"", whose distinguished service to our country continues in another place. The devoted work of Mr. Charles Simeons is, I am sure, well known to right hon. and hon. Members. I know, also, of the consistent efforts of my immediate predecessor, Mr. Ivor Clemitson, to ensure that the House was fully aware of the specific needs and problems of Luton, East. He was always prepared to take up the individual problems of constituents and to exercise his judgment on the wider issues of national life on their behalf. It is my intention to follow the example of my predecessors—to speak for my constituents in the House and to exercise my judgment on the issues that affect them and the rest of Britain. Luton, East is in many ways representative of the whole country. We have a great industrial centre in the giant Vauxhall works, on whose success in the car market thousands of families depend. The company's achievement in turning its former losses into profitable trading as a result of the support that the management has received from the moderate and responsible work force is, I believe, an example to the whole of British industry. We have skilled technical firms, such as Kent Instruments, on whose expertise dozens of other enterprises depend. We have a highly successful, profitable and expanding airport. We have a wide range of small businesses, including our famous hat-making industry and the firms which service the larger companies. The Arndale shopping centre is one of the finest in the country. Many of my constituents have the pleasure of supporting Luton Town football club. I am privileged to represent just the sort of town upon which Britain's future prosperity will depend. This country's economic position is one that must cause every citizen concern. Over the years, our industries have become less and less competitive and the gap between Britain and our more successful neighbours has widened. The number of people out of work has risen by 800,000 in the past five years and our industrial production has risen by less than 1 per cent. a year. Prices have more than doubled. My constituency,   where unemployment has risen from 1,335 in 1974 to 3,981 in May this year, has suffered as much as any other part of Britain. Our decline as an industrial Power cannot and must not continue. A sick man was never cured by bleeding him with leeches even in the Dark Ages. An ailing economy will not revive when it has to bear the burden of higher and higher taxation and more and more bureaucracy. This burden has been borne on the shoulders of productive industry. The average worker paid £389 of his income directly in tax in 1974, and by May 1979 he was paying £939. There was no incentive for him or anyone else to work more productively, because the reward for his effort went directly into the State's bottomless pocket. The people who suffered for this were the weak, the sick, the elderly and the disabled, who rely upon the success of the rest of the country to help them. They are the real victims of this prolonged economic failure. We have suffered from measures that actually discouraged employers from taking on new workers. I know from my own experience as a small business man how disheartening it is to spend time filling in an ever-increasing number of forms to satisfy civil servants when my aim is to produce more to enable us to achieve greater prosperity. The measures taken by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer are the right ones to deal with this situation. It is essential to reduce the standard and higher rates of income tax and revise the personal allowances in order to provide not only the incentives but the rewards for harder work. The room for expansion in the economy can be found only by trimming wasteful and excessive public expenditure. I am sure that the decision to raise the standard rate of retirement pensions in November will be welcomed on both sides of the House. The extra £1·30 per week for single persons and £2·10 for married couples, on top of the increases proposed by the previous Administration, will be a great help to many of my constituents. However, I say to my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor that the  long delay between the announcement and the payment of the increases is of considerable concern to many pensioners. I hope that it will be possible for him and his colleagues to investigate the possibility of shortening this gap in future, or of backdating increases in line with income tax rebates. The shift in the balance of taxation from taxes on income to taxes on expenditure is certainly welcome on the Government Benches. The men and women of this country are better placed than anyone else to decide how their money should be spent. The increase in income tax allowances and the reduction in the standard and higher rates will more than offset the increase in VAT. This will certainly stimulate the small business sector. The turnover threshold for VAT should be raised from £10,000 to £20,000. This would take approximately 500,000 businesses out of the system and would involve an estimated pre-Budget cost of approximately £40 million. As a small business man, I know the immense amount of time imposed by the burden of bookkeeping for VAT. The loss of revenue involved would be more than recouped by the costs that would be saved. Raising the threshold would be a simple and inexpensive way of stimulating this vital sector of the economy. One reservation that I must express concerns the domestic rating system. Householders have to meet bills year after year that bear no relation to their ability to pay. People in identical houses living next door to one another have very different financial resources. There are innumerable instances of widows on fixed pensions paying exactly the same as their married neighbours with two children, all of whom are working. This is an issue on which the Conservative Party has campaigned since 1974. We have given public pledges in the past to abolish domestic rates in their present form. It is vital that we keep this pledge in the lifetime of this Parliament. I accept that alternative proposals will have to be considered by the Government in the light of the Layfield report and subsequent discussions. I urge the Chancellor and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment to   press ahead with the necessary studies. This antiquated form of local government taxation needs urgent reform. New proposals must be made. They must relate payment for local services to ability to pay. They must positively encourage greater efficiency in local authorities and they must give local authorities more discretion to determine their own priorities. I welcome and support the measures in this Budget. They are an essential first step towards the economic recovery and renewed prosperity of Britain. All sections of the British people will be better off as a result. I look forward to supporting the further measures that will be necessary to secure our long-term revitalisation.
