gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I ask for the sympathetic attention of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen to what is officially described as my maiden speech? When I first came to this House I imagined that the description ""maiden"" referred to the new Member who, like a debutante, is making a first entry into sophisticated society; but I had not been here very long before I heard the hon. Gentleman the Junior Burgess for Oxford University (Sir A. Herbert) reminiscing about his own maiden speech, which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) said was no maiden but a brazen hussy of a speech. I then realised that an additional qualification that was required of a maiden speech was that it should be lilylike in hue. Whether I succeed in that respect or not remains to be seen, but I do hope that my bowling may at least be sufficiently direct to qualify me for a maiden over. May I refer, particularly, to paragraphs 12 and 13 of the White Paper on Defence, particularly the statement that between 30th June and 31st December it is considered that we can reduce our military commitments by 40 per cent.; and, secondly, to the fact that in paragraph 13 it is stated that His Majesty's  Government intend to continue demobilisation in accordance with the ""age and length of service"" release scheme? I think this House has a right to have a clear statement on the way in which it is considered that our abnormal commitments will be reduced in the period from 1st July to 31st December by 40 per cent. I hope that later in the Debate we shall have a clear statement from some Member of the Government, indicating how it is considered that that reduction is likely to be effected. To my mind the figure of 1,100,000 total strength stated in the White Paper to be required by the end of December could be achieved at a much earlier date, and though speaking from this side of the House I wish to support the view stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) that we should endeavour to achieve a smaller figure at a much earlier date. At the moment we are demobilising men at the rate of 100,000 a week. At least, that was the figure during the period January to February. In accordance with the present scheme that rate will have sunk to 50,000 a week by the period May to June. It seems to me that, as we have been told that transportation is not the reason for a reduction in demobilisation, as we know that the inadequacy of the demobilisation machinery is not the reason, then the only reason there can be for that slowing down is that of military commitments. If we cannot have a statement from the Government on how those military commitments are to be reduced by such a large extent, I hope they will consider bringing forward the time when we can achieve the smaller figure, of 1,100,000. Under the present proposals the young man who joined through a Territorial Army unit, who served right from the beginning of the war, is being released after nearly seven years' service in June of this year. Under the present proposals, in the case of the Army, a man who is 30, and has had three years' service in the Army — and who sees fellows in his own town who managed to escape military service owing to the fact that they have been in deferred occupations, and are not being called up — he, under the present proposals, sees no likelihood of being out of the Army before the end of 1946. I suggest that we should do all that we can to increase the releases. During the weekend, I made some approximate calculations as to what might be done. To increase the releases in the Army and the Air Force to permit release group 40 to be out by the end of June, would involve an approximate reduction in our Forces of an additional 300,000 men. It would, however, enable men who had much longer to serve to get out much sooner. I hope that whoever is replying to the Debate will consider whether it is possible to bring about a greater equality of releases between the three Services, and, at the same time, to demobilise from both the Army and the R.A.F., more men who have served for a considerable number of years during the war. The subject of inequality of releases in the Army is a matter of considerable concern to the men at present. No doubt, that is partly because it is proposed that the Navy should reach demobilisation group 52 by the end of June, and partly because it appears that some of the resentment shown a few months ago by the R.A.F. against what they considered to be slow demobilisation appears to have had an effect. The figures of the original plan put before the House in October showed how many men it was proposed to demobilise from the Forces between January and June. The men, by comparing those figures with the figures of those now proposed to be demobilised, see that, although in the case of the Navy there is a 40 per cent. increase in the number proposed to be demobilised during that period, and, in the R.A.F., 100 per cent. increase, there is in the Army only a five per cent. increase. The soldier normally is a very patient fellow, provided the facts are given to him, and there is a clear reason why he should do something, but he is rapidly losing his patience, and I would urge the Government to do what they can to secure a speedier release for the men in the Army. I suggest that can be done if the military commitments referred to in the White Paper are reconsidered, to see whether it would not be possible to increase the releases by the end of June up to possibly release group 40 for both the R.A.F. and the Army. On the subject of B Glass releases, I refer again to the statement in the White Paper that His Majesty's Government  intend to continue demobilisation in accordance with the ""age and service"" release scheme. Some weeks ago, I endeavoured to obtain from the Service Departments a statement on the number of men who were being released in different trades under Class B procedure. In the case of the Admiralty, I got a good account, stating that it was likely that, before long, practically all men who could be spared and who were required under Class B releases would be released. In the case of the Air Ministry and the War Office, I received identical replies — no doubt they put their heads together, and decided that they would not be divided in this matter. I was told that the information which I required was not readily available. I am not sure whether that answer was correct or not; I doubt if it was, for I cannot imagine how any Service Department could make releases of men, without knowing exactly what releases were being made. I think that the various Service Departments should know how many qualified carpenters, for instance, there are in any particular release group. I remember being told of a machine used in one Department of the War Office, known as the Hollerith machine, by which each man's qualifications were shown on a card by certain punctures made in it, and if anyone desired to know when a man was to be released under group 36, punctures were made at certain places in the card and by operating the machine it was quite easy to obtain the information. Or, if the War Office wanted to know, at any time, how many men had blue eyes or hammer toes, or a combination of blue eyes and hammer toes, this information could be obtained from the machine. Perhaps information could also be obtained by the use of this machine concerning tradesmen. I mention this, because I am certain that the Service Departments have the information at their disposal of how many tradesmen in different categories are in each release group. Under the present method, the Ministry of Labour give the various Service Departments block allocations for releases. It may be, that in order to secure the release of an adequate number, men in very high release groups have to be released. That has been the case in the Admiralty. If the information which is available were made public, I am certain that we should find that in the case of carpenters in the   various Services there is a wide disparity of releases. We should find in the Army a low release group for obtaining the release of carpenters, probably a higher group in the case of the Air Ministry, and a still higher group in the case of the Admiralty. I suggest that the method of block releases should be altered, and information on how many tradesmen there are in any particular release group should be given by the Service Departments to the Ministry of Labour which would know at any time how many tradesmen of a particular category were wanted. The Ministry would be able to obtain figures from the Service Departments showing how many tradesmen they had in each of their release groups and would be able to make up the total required by levelling out the figures. If the Minister of Labour, for instance, required 5,000 carpenters, he would know that he could get them, say, by the release of carpenters in all the Services up to release group 46. I put that suggestion to the Government, because I know from my own correspondence of the considerable amount of disgruntlement felt by many tradesmen anxious to return home to play their part in the reconstruction of this country, who know that other people in different Services in a much higher release group are obtaining release. In conclusion, may I say this? The Prime Minister did say that information about demobilisation was being passed to the serving men. I beg to disagree. That information is not being passed on officially to the serving men. The serving men are getting most of their information about demobilisation from the papers. Many of those papers are not particularly anxious to support the present Government. I maintain it is up to the various Service Departments, or if they cannot do it — though I think they are the people to do it — to the Government as a whole to see that full publicity is given to the reasons for the relative slowness in demobilisation, or the reasons why there must be disparity in release rates as between the different Services. I believe in the case of the Air Ministry that that method has been used and has been of a certain amount of value, but I am not satisfied, from my own experience and from information obtained from correspondence with my constituents, that that  applies to the case of the War Office. In the case of the Army most serving soldiers get their information from the papers, and not from information which is passed on as it should be, from commands abroad to the units, and thus to the men themselves. To my mind the officers in the various units should be given information which would enable them to convince the men that the demobilisation scheme was being worked fairly; that they were doing a good job whilst serving abroad; and that they were being demobilised as quickly as possible. I think, if that information were given, and that method used, we should have far less dissatisfaction with the progress of demobilisation than we have at the present time. I hope we shall have an assurance from the Government during this Debate that some methods will be used whereby that information is got over to the serving soldier.
