gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am sure that hon. Members will understand my feelings as I get to my feet for the first time in the House, and will accord to me the indulgence that they traditionally accord to new Members. Although I am proud and privileged to represent the interests of my constituency and to take my place in the House, I cannot help but reflect upon the circumstances which caused the vacancy, and I take this opportunity of paying tribute to my predecessor. It was never my privilege to meet Mr. Brooman-White, but I know the high regard in which he was held in my constituency by political friend and foe alike. He was respected for his sincerity, for his ability and for his courage—and not least, perhaps, for his courage, because, as hon. Members on both sides of the Committee know, it was this which helped  him to battle against illness over the last two or three years, in his attempt to serve his country and his people, whom he represented in the House of Commons faithfully and well. Hon. Members will know that we in Scotland take our politics very seriously indeed. They know that we are very much alive to the social and economic problems of our nation, and I warn the Committee that we in Rutherglen take precisely the same line as is taken in other Scottish constituencies. The Royal and very ancient Burgh of Rutherglen has a long tradition of social progress, as has its neighbour Cambus-lang—also in my division—which proudly boasts that it is the largest village in Scotland, and which is the industrial heart of my constituency. The interest in social and economic progress which we have in the west of Scotland, in general, and Rutherglen in particular, was manifested in the recent by-election campaign—a by-election which gave every opportunity to satisfy the appetite of the most avid political supporter. During the campaign we discussed at length a number of political issues affecting Rutherglen and Scotland. We discussed school building, housing, jobs and pensions. I shall not go into detail on these subjects today. I am given to understand that in a maiden speech one must not be too controversial, and that to depart from this path would lead me into a little difficulty. Not least, however, we discussed the record of the Government in respect of the hospital services. I heard the Minister refer to the millions of pounds spent on these services. I have heard similar figures given before. A simple and untutored mind, such as mine, tends to translate the millions of pounds spent into the actual number of beds provided. It may sound very impressive to quote figures like £50 million, £60 million or £70 million from a political platform, but we must think of what is actually happening in terms of the provision of beds for acute and for long-term cases. When we in Scotland think of this, I have to confess that we are rather disappointed. The numbers fall very short of the figures for which we had hoped by 1964. The social conditions, houses and the like, in the west of Scotland have created many hardships for our people and have brought   disease and suffering to many families. So we hoped that by this stage we should have made very much greater progress in providing beds in our area. The second point which I wished to make is purely local. In Rutherglen we have been pressing the need for beds for maternity and general cases. We are delighted to know that after a very long time and lengthy discussions, and after a great deal of negotiation, we are to have a maternity unit. But we are still bereft of any decision to put a general hospital in the area. I should have thought the most sensible thing would have been to build a maternity unit at the same time as a general hospital. This would seem to me to be economical. I trust that the Committee will not think that I am being parochial in putting this point to hon. Members. Rutherglen is the centre of West Lanarkshire. It serves the area and also south-east Glasgow. There is a great need for hospital accommodation of this sort. The Rutherglen Burgh Council has made every effort to accommodate the Western Regional Hospital Board. The council has offered site provisions and the like, but still we have no decision. I hope most sincerely that the Minister will use his good offices with the Western Regional Hospital Board in this matter. I speak for everyone, the medical people in my division, the town council and the county councils, when I urge the need for a general hospital in Western Lanarkshire. We are very conscious of the hardship involved for many people who have to travel to the out-patients' departments in the city of Glasgow, which is quite a considerable distance. A number of people have to spend long hours and indeed a lot of money—much of which they can ill-afford—in visiting relatives in the general city hospital. There is a growing number of people who must wait for ages before they can have a bed in a hospital and receive proper treatment. Not least we are concerned about the older people in the constituency and those who suffer from some chronic condition. We in Rutherglen are very much alive to the problems created by an ageing community. I have heard figures quoted of the percentage increase of old people that we are to have in the years  ahead and we want to do something about that. I think that the town council and the county council have tackled this problem seriously. They have looked ahead and they are doing a useful job of work. We realise that old folks do not take kindly to having to go to hospital and that some would be best treated in their own homes; in familiar surroundings where they would be with their own families. This helps to lessen the period of illness. We know, too, that older people form the greater proportion of those who are admitted to our general hospitals and the period for which they must stay there is much longer on average than for other cases. Both the local authorities in my division have done a very useful job in looking after the interests of what is sometimes regarded as a rather neglected section of the community. So have the voluntary bodies, but this afternoon I wish to comment and give praise for one effort which I think worth the attention of hon. Members. Some time ago, after a great deal of research and thought, the medical officer of the Borough of Rutherglen and his colleagues in the medical profession decided to inaugurate a consultative health centre for older people. I regard this as one of the most useful pieces of work and examples of initiative that we have experienced in the constituency and I pay tribute to those who have been involved in this experiment over the years. The aim of the centre is very simple. It is to keep the old people healthy and to prevent hospitalisation; or to reduce the period of hospitalisation should it prove necessary. We have had a great deal of co-operation from the general practitioners throughout the whole constituency. They have sent to the centre many people who are over 55 years of age and approaching the retirement age. When they come to the centre they are examined in three different ways. First, there is the normal medical examination which I think very important, because it provides an opportunity to deal with disease in its very early stages and to preventing disease. People who are getting on in years are advised about the problems which they are likely to face as they get older. Diet problems are   discussed and they are given advice on this matter. The care of their bodies is discussed, and I think that this sort of thing helps in dealing with the whole problem of physical health. What is also important is that there should be some sort of inquiry into their social conditions. As a fairly young man—I am sure that this also applies to many hon. Members—I find that sometimes we do not appreciate that there are many problems about growing old. There is a great deal of concern in the minds of those approaching retirement age and this is something for which assistance may be provided in a centre of this sort. A man who is approaching retirement age may be reassured and given proper advice about his retirement and how his leisure time may be spent. I am sure that in a considerable measure this will help to alleviate his problems and reduces anxiety. Not only is there an inquiry into the personal circumstances of these old people, but also inquiry is made into the circumstances of their families. Advice is given to the old man or woman and also to the family on how to tackle the problem of looking after an ageing parent. I think that very real help may be given in this way. Advice may be given on housing and on financial problems. No one will dispute that these problems create a great deal of depression and anxiety among older citizens which in the long run leads to much illness among the members of this section of the community. Many people have attended the centre and receive much benefit from the advice given by the medical staff, by laymen associated with it and by the voluntary bodies who help in this work. To sum up, I would say that in essence the centre is a projection of the geriatric unit into the ambit of the local authority in a joint effort to make a preventive attack on illness and to endeavour to keep older people active, healthy and in their own homes. This seems to me an excellent notion. My plea to the Minister is that this whole question may be properly examined. I hope sincerely that as the years go on the number of such centres will be multiplied, and that eventually they will occupy a statutory place in the country. I know that a project of this sort costs a great deal of money. It means that many more people must work with the medical profession and that there must be training and so on. I know that already many calls are made on local authorities for money, but I have been persuaded that this would be money worth spending and the staff find it worth while to spend time and effort on a job of this sort. If we can save our old people from moving into hospital, save time spent in hospital beds and, above all, give a better way of life to those who have given their best years of their working life, we shall equate those benefits with the amount of money spent. I make this my first plea to the Secretary of State and to the Minister of Health. When I came to this House a few days ago I was told by a very senior hon. Member that he made a plea in his maiden speech but it was 14 years before he saw the fulfilment of his ideals and aspirations. I trust that it will not be 14 years before I see my hopes fulfilled. If the Minister accepts and studies the problem, he will earn my gratitude and the gratitude of those concerned with the welfare of our older people.
