gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On rising to address the Committee for the first time, I claim, as is customary, the indulgence of hon. Members in bearing with me and my shortcomings and in extending the courtesy which is usual upon these rather difficult occasions. Like my hon. Friend the Member for Banff (Mr. Duthie), I was extremely pleased with an answer which I was given yesterday regarding the Meals in Establishments Order. I hope that something will come of this in the near future. I feel that if the supply of fish has been de-controlled, there is a case for the consumption to be de-controlled also. We have heard speakers from the North and East, and I should like to shift for the time being to one or two of the problems in the far West. I will first deal with some of the difficulties of the canning industry in West Cornwall. In 1948 the Cornish Sea Fishers Committee met and were addressed by a representative of, I believe, the Ministry of Food, who encouraged them to undertake the production of canned pilchards as soon as possible because he said something to the effect that there would be no possibility of canned fish imports from the dollar areas for at least five years. After initial difficulties, some seven firms started, I believe, and they now have an output of 200,000 cases a year. As may be well imagined, they were extremely alarmed, when in 1949 large  quantities of Japanese, Clifornian and South African canned pilchards were imported. The position today is that these firms have about 12,000 cases of canned pilchards unsold. At the same time I believe the Ministry say that 30,000 cases of Japanese pilchards are on their way to this country, bought with dollars. I understand that the Ministry have told our canners that their prices are too high. It may be that they are a bit higher, but I submit that the wages we-pay to the people employed in canning these fish are very different from those. paid to the Japanese. If we cannot produce enough—and of this I am not sure—why should not our share be taken before the Japanese? I believe that certain constituents of mine asked the Ministry if they would take some of this surplus and the reply was that the Ministry of Food were not traders. Yesterday I was handed a tin of pilchards from which I took the label I hold in my hand. On it is a picture of a pilchard and underneath is stated that it was packed in Japan, and next to it is a notice "" Imported by the Ministry of Food, London."" That is hardly consistent with not being traders. In my division there are mothers and relations of men who have lost their lives at sea, whose feelings I am sure hon. Members can well imagine when they go into shops in West Cornwall and see on the shelves such tins packed in Japan and imported by the Ministry of Food. [An HON. MEMBER: "" Shame!""] They have made vigorous protests to me on this subject. What is the effect on the fishermen? The British Canners' Association have guaranteed the fishermen 3s. a stone for pilchards provided we are not flooded with foreign imports. If these canners have to close down, I am informed that approximately 750 fish workers will be thrown out of work and that it will have a serious effect on some 450 fishermen. Lastly on this canning question, in the event of war there would be no Japanese pilchards, even if people agree with their importation now. Possibly then we should be turning to the canners in this. country. If so, surely they must be kept going and given a reasonable security for the future should there be another war —which, pray God, will not happen—so that they would be ready. A great deal has been said about the; cost of gear. If no manilla twine has   been bought because the excuse is made that dollars are not available, surely dollars can be better used for buying manilla twine than for importing Japanese pilchards? I was interested to hear the hon. and gallant Member for Yarmouth (Squadron-Leader Kinghorn) suggesting research into the use of nylon. Even though this is three times the price today, I see no reason why research should not be carried out in an attempt to bring down the price. Hon. Members will agree that there is considerable concern as to the future of this industry owing to the lack of recruitment. My hon. Friend the Member for Banff told us about the difficulties of getting crews, and this is a matter which causes many of us great concern. May I make some suggestions to the Government to try to overcome this difficulty? First, there should be really effective and interesting propaganda in schools to bring to the notice of adventurous children what a grand and wonderful service they can give their country—and I mean service—in going into the fishing industry. This might also be the subject of special lectures in such schools as the Outward Bound Trust. In addition, the West Country has put up a scheme to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries which has been approved by the Council of Further Education for the south-western area. I believe that this training scheme has not gone through yet because the Minister of Education has not been able to give the necessary training grants. I hope that something may be done in this matter. Would it be possible to have a kind of fishermen's reserve of the Royal Navy? Its object would be to enrol young men of call-up age, or before. They would be exempt from National Service, on condition that they did not go into the reserve to dodge National Service. They would sign on for a period of, say, 10 years, they would be given naval training in off-season periods, and in this way we would have in the event of war a ready, well-trained and excellent body of men ready to go immediately into the patrol and mine-sweeping service, as they have done in two world wars. Those of us who have served in the Royal Navy know what wonderful service fishermen have given. Before leaving that point, may I ask whether the Government have made any special provision in the Festival of Britain to show what the fishermen do and what are their difficulties? Have they their right place in this Exhibition? The fishermen of this country provide not only a wonderful service in time of war but are the lifeblood of this country in peace, and any of us who know the duties carried out by coxswains and crews in the lifeboat services know what a vital part they play, quite apart from fishing. Enough has been said about their part in war to make it unnecessary for me to say anything further. In conclusion, I am sure that many hon. Members in going the rounds of their constituency socials have listened to the local celebrity, after the master of ceremonies has said, "" Mr. So-and-so will now render ' The Fishermen of England.' "" The last time I heard it, I was struck by these words:  And when at night you safely lie In blankets snug and warm. The fishermen of England Are riding out the storm. Let us hope that all of us on all sides of the Committee will do our utmost to see that these men really do ride out the storm.
