gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a feeling of diffidence that I rise to make my first speech in the House, and to do so in this very important debate. I think that hon. Members are aware that the subject of the debate earned some prominence in the by-election in the constituency which I have the honour to represent, and it was this fact which made me decide to ask the   House for its tolerance and indulgence while I make my maiden speech. I feel particularly honoured to be following the last hon. Member who represented South Dorset. I believe that he was respected on both sides of the House for his great independence of mind and that he has gained greater respect on this side of the House for that quality during recent weeks. May I hope that in representing South Dorset I shall to some extent attempt to follow him in that quality if not in some others? There are one or two comments which I should like to make about the by-election in South Dorset in connection with this debate. It was said that the by-election campaign itself aroused an interest in the Common Market which did not exist in the constituency before the by-election took place. But I had plenty of opportunity of discovering that many people,in South Dorset were exceedingly worried and confused about the whole question of the Common Market and wanted a great deal more guidance than they were getting on the way in which the negotiations were being conducted and the possible consequences of our entry into the Common Market. I should also like to point out that the prominence which this subject gained in the constituency is not due only to the fact that agriculture is a very important industry there. In fact, I believe that I am right in saying that there are only about 600 land holders in South Dorset, and, important as it is, agriculture is only one of a number of important industries in South Dorset. If I may speak for a moment about the constituency itself, South Dorset contains a great variety in its scenery, its industries and its people. I was surprised to discover how many people living in the constituency today originated from elsewhere, and I was particularly surprised to note the many different parts of the British Isles from which they came. As hon. Members are aware, it is a very attractive part of the country, with its great links with pre-history and history and its delightful villages. In fact, I would go as far as to say that there is no other hon. Member on this side of the House—or perhaps only a few—who can claim to represent a constituency as beautiful as that which I represent. I should also like to point out that South Dorset is a developing constituency. There are the very famous stone quarries at Portland and Purbeck and, of course, the dockyards, but more recently, there have been added engineering establishments and the very exciting development of the atomic energy plant at Winfrith Heath. But I hope that in future in this developing part of the country a real attempt will be made to maintain the natural amenities, upon which the thriving holiday industry of South Dorset depends. This depends ultimately on proper town and country planning of the area to make sure that this is possible. If I may turn to the issue of the debate, I should like to say a few words about agriculture. Of the 600 land holdings in South Dorset, about two-thirds are farms of less than 100 acres, and the great majority of these depend wholly or to some extent upon dairy produce. These farmers have had increasing difficulty in recent years as a consequence of rising wages and other costs, and they are already beginning to feel the pinch, particularly as the deficiency payments have virtually ended for milk production. Farm earnings in the United Kingdom are still lagging seriously behind the earnings of industrial workers. I believe that this position is even more acute in Western Europe. Facts of this kind and the fact, too, that almost inevitably our entry into Europe on present terms will involve a rise in the cost of feeding stuffs are all creating great concern among small farmers in South Dorset. I believe that to a great extent they have a right to be apprehensive about the future. I should like to tell the Lord Privy Seal and the House that this has grave consequences at present. Farmers, as the House is aware, have to invest for the long term, and many small farmers to whom I have spoken are anxious about the wisdom of investing in plant and machinery for their farms, or indeed in livestock, as long as their future remains as uncertain as it seems to be at present, while these negotiations are continuing. May I add that it is not what one might term merely the bread-and-butter issues with which, as I discovered, people in the country are concerned. In addition to agriculture, people living on retirement pensions are very worried by the prospect   of a rise in food prices. Many people expressed to me great fears about the possible development of unemployment and the inability of Her Majesty's Government to cure it. But ultimately, I believe, one of the interesting consequences of the conduct of the negotiations is to make our people more aware of some of the problems which Britain will face in the world and of Britain's place as it will be in the world in the future. I am certain that whatever course we take about the Common Market, and whatever terms we ultimately succeed in getting, our entry, or otherwise, will have far-reaching consequences throughout the world. I hope that I am not overestimating the importance of the position of this country in this respect, but I should like to illustrate this point of view by mentioning the African Continent, in which I have lived and worked, because I believe that the possibility of African countries accepting associate status is relevant to the point which I am trying to make. It may be possible to get certain African territories to accept associate status, but, as hon. Members are aware, many African territories and some African politicians are opposed to the idea of accepting it. It may be possible to talk them into taking a step of this kind. After all, I believe that for many of them this would involve certain financial inducements and possibilities of trade with Europe in the future. But I believe that the dangers of this step are to be seen in their own instincts against it which they have shown. It might have grave consequences on the political relationships between African countries in the future and also on the kind of part which African countries will be able to play in future world affairs. I believe that it is reasons like these which should make us more concerned than perhaps many of us are about the consequences of the way in which we conduct the negotiations—the consequences as they are likely to be for countries in other parts of the world. This is the reason why I should like to end by saying that I believe that these negotiations, and their consequences, are likely to have far-reaching results beyond this island and, indeed, beyond the Continent of Europe.
