gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is the custom for maiden speakers to be non-controversial. I am not quite sure that I can maintain that tradition, although at this stage I shall not try to answer some of the economic arguments put forward from the other side. What I want to talk about is the very real measures in the Budget, which are designed to stimulate economic growth and productivity. As the first of these, I welcome the Selective Employment Tax. A great many things have been said from the other side about the place of the Chancellor in history, but I feel quite seriously that this is a new look at taxation. It is a great step forward, and the possibilities which arise from such a form of taxation are immense. I hope that it is only the first of a set of measures of the same type. Now that we have the Selective Employment Tax, what we want is a double Selective Employment Tax; in other words, a selective Selective Employment Tax. That applies not only to the manufacturing side, but also to the services side. If we look, first, at the manufacturing side, where the premiums are obtainable, a great deal of selection in the payment of those premiums could be applied. There should be a certain selectivity, so that the premiums are applied to the industries which contribute directly to the export drive; and about 30 per cent. of industry makes such a direct contribution. There should be selectivity towards the actual production side of industry, rather than the administrative side. In a firm whose management I advised recently, I  found that in 1951 there were 1,000 employees, of whom only 50 were employed in administration; in other words, 5 per cent. In 1961, there were 1,200 employees, of whom 100 were employed in administration; in other words, 8·5 per cent. Those are some of the better figures which will be found in industry today. Undoubtedly, there is a tendency to switch over from production to administration. I know that classifications may have changed in the intervening years, but there is no doubt about that prevalent tendency. The weapon has been provided in the shape of the premiums, and I think that those premiums should be directed at the production side of export industries in particular. In the same way, I feel that there should be selectivity on the payment side. There should be selectivity on the services side. I think that there are some obvious cases where relief is required. We have heard of most of them in this Committee during the last few days, and I shall not quote them in detail, but perhaps I might touch on two or three. First, there are charities in general. On Thursday morning I had the privilege of attending the opening of the Methodist Synod which was held in Dunstable and covered the northern Home Counties. A resolution was passed unanimously by about 400 clergymen and laymen who are concerned with charities, in the following terms: That this Methodist Synod expresses strong opposition to the inclusion of religious organisations in the proposed Selective Employment Tax on the grounds that the services rendered by churches, voluntary organisations and charitable trusts are on a non-profit basis. I think that all charitable work, whether on a religious basis or otherwise, should get relief from this form of imposition. One has also to realise that we are faced with the problem of part-time, elderly, and disabled workers. I have already had several approaches from both workers and employers in my constituency who feel that this tax will make the employment of disabled people, part-time workers, and so on, less desirable than hitherto. There should also be some relief for service industries which are contributing to the export drive. A number of services are making a serious contribution   in this respect. What I am suggesting about this tax is that what we really need, and what I hope the Chancellor will go on to introduce, is a selective Selective Employment Tax. This is a realistic economic weapon which can contribute on the manufacturing side and also give relief on the service side. I think that there is a need to give real financial incentives to industries which are prepared to adopt new machines, new methods, and new techniques. There is an overwhelming need to replace 1926 machines by 1966 ones, to provide computers, to provide automated systems, and so on. There is a growing need for all this in British industry. A saying which became famous during the war was: Give us the tools and we will finish the job. The real need of British industry today is for 20th century tools to enable it to carry out a 20th century job. But, of course, the tools themselves are not enough. We also require the management and the people who can use them. There should also be considerable incentives for scientific management training. In spite of what has been said by some hon. Gentlemen opposite, the fact is that British management is largely dominated by the old boy idea. It is not what one knows, but who one knows, and who one's father was, which counts all along the line, and there is a real need in British industry for scientific management training. Those are the needs today if we are to get a substantial level of economic growth. If we are to get the advance in productivity which we all want to see, we must have a vast expansion in industrial equipment, and also a vast expansion on the educational side. It is only if we can couple the twin forces of industry and education that we can hope to see Britain find her economic place in the world. I thank the Committee for being so indulgent during my speech. I do not know whether I have the assets to be a successful politician, but Teddy Roosevelt once said that the successful politician was the man who expressed what everybody else was saying in the loudest possible voice. I do not always say what  everybody else is saying, but I am sure the Committee will have found that I have one of the necessary attributes.
