gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In the three short days I have been in this House I have been given to understand that it is the tradition for a new Member to speak about his constituency. Were this not a tradition, I would do it anyway. I am indeed proud to speak about a constituency which bred me, reared me, fed me and schooled me. I am particularly proud to speak of the constituency of Banff because it is the richest constituency in the whole of the United Kingdom, having, as it has, no fewer than 30 distilleries, all of them turning out excellent whisky. I would commend the beverage to those hon. Members who do not know it. I will not mention any brand names. Suffice it to say that there is no such thing as bad whisky. There are only some that are better than others. But I did not get my red face from a whisky bottle. I got it from facing the same cold winds as my fellow farmers throughout Scotland face as we have done our job on days when no one else would venture out, tending sheep and looking after cattle. There have been times when anyone with more sense would have remained inside. But we did the job simply to help British housewives get food at reasonable prices. It was particularly gratifying to me to hear in the Gracious Speech that the Government intend to encourage the ""maximum economic production"" of food and fish. These are grand words and I was delighted to hear them. Being a new boy and still not cynical, I hope that we can take them at their face value. But what is the good of a grandoise scheme if, in the meantime, our producers are bleeding to death, when pig fatteners are losing up to £3 a pig sent to market and when our beef fatteners are losing as much as £25 an animal sent to the slaughterhouse? Such losses are being incurred at the moment. About this time last year, the Gulliver committee suggested that the producers of beef cattle required £20 per hundredweight to break even, to cover their costs. Yet today all our beef fatteners can get in the market is about £17 to £18 a  hundredweight. These losses are to be passed on soon to the men who can least afford them—the hill and uplands farmers. I beg the Government to do something about the beef situation now and not wait a whole year until the next price review. The beef farmer turns over his money rather more quickly than the breeder, who has often to wait two to three years for his investment to yield any dividend. I turn to the proposal in the guarantee scheme to remove the lime subsidy. I have taken the opportunity to use the excellent Library facilities of the House to do some investigation into the lime subsidy. I found that it was no less than 37 years ago, on 19th June 1937, that a certain gentleman by the name of Mr. Clement Attlee asked the then Conservative Government about the subsidy, which was about to come into being. I can recall the days before that subsidy, when I was little more than a boy. I recall an 18-acre field on my father's farm which could sustain only six Clydesdale horses. But since the introduction of the lime subsidy and farmers having used lime to sweeten the soil and remove acidity, that same field can carry 50 dairy cows throughout the summer and about 60 sheep throughout the winter. That is the measure of improvement which the lime subsidy has brought about in these 37 years. It is regrettable that not all the acres of this country have yet been limed and broken in. There is a great deal more to do. I have noted the cost of this subsidy over the years. On average, it has been £5 million a year. Never has any Government spent money more wisely. I commend to you, Mr. Speaker, the efforts of the British farmer. In my election campaign I addressed a meeting of 200 farmers. I asked how many of them had gone abroad this year for their holidays. I said, ""Come on, hands up"". There was no response. I then asked, ""How many of you did a drainage scheme last year?"" No fewer than 53 said that they had done such a scheme. Surely this is indicative of the quality of men who own and handle our farms. Surely it is an indication of how the Government should spend their money if they want results. I turn now to the coastal part of my constituency and the problems facing the   fishermen along the Moray coast. It is significant that of the seven constituencies which returned Scottish National Party Members at this election, no fewer than five have vital fishing interests. We discovered throughout the campaign that the fishermen were vitally concerned about what is to happen to them if the fishing regulations of the EEC are allowed to take effect in 1982. What will happen when the boats of the EEC countries are allowed to fish right up to our shores and take away mature and immature stocks of fish? These men have every right to be concerned about their future. I will do all I can to look after their interests. I ask the Government, what are they doing as of now about negotiating with our fishing interests over the problem of fishing limits? I understand that the Law of the Sea Conference is to take place in Caracas later this year. Yet so far there has been no attempt to get in touch with our fishermen and fishing interests to see what they want. I hope that we shall see a considerable extension of our fishing limits after that Conference and I sincerely hope that our negotiators will take a hard line. Our fishermen go out trawling either singly or in pairs. However, off the coast of Caithness, in particular, on a clear day, it is possible to see anything up to 30 Russian or Polish boats, line abreast, sweeping the sea clean. They have no need of fish finders, as do our men, or of skill, as have our men. They just sweep the sea clean. I hope that this will be changed after the Law of the Sea Conference. I come now to the problem of forestry as it affects not only my constituency but the entire United Kingdom. We are just now experiencing a shortage of food and energy. These shortages will pale into insignificance in comparison with the timber shortage which is looming up. By 1990, the only country in the world with any spare capacity of timber will be Siberia. We can well imagine what the price of that timber will be when it is the only available source in the world. At the moment our forests provide only 12 per cent. of our requirements. We have 16 years until 1990 in which to go ahead and plant trees. I am not suggesting that those trees will be ready for cutting by 1990 but at least we shall be  somewhere along the road to a greater degree of self-sufficiency. I do not suggest that we can ever become self-sufficient in timber but I should like to see the country's supply at a level which would enable us, in times of great scarcity, to cut our timber so that we would not be left in dire straits. There is one obvious place in which to grow this timber. It is in those vast grouse moors and deer forests which this country has allowed to continue for far too long. We can no longer afford the two ounces of grouse per acre per annum that we have had to put up with over the years from these idle acres. I commend to the Government an expansionist policy in fishing, farming and forestry, making greater use of this nation's resources.
