gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It must be a somewhat unusual occasion for a maiden speaker to congratulate another maiden speaker, but I do so with a fellow sympathy and, at the same time, with great sincerity. I like to hear the voice of the country and I am sure that the hon. Member for Torrington (Mr. P. Browne) will embellish the debates of this House with the refreshing voice of the Atlantic seaboard. I have a particular difficulty in speaking today, because my predecessor, who represented Bishop Auckland, was an expert in this subject and an architect of the revival of South-West Durham. My constituency is most grateful for the work that he did, and I am sure that Members of the House will feel grateful, too, for the work he did for nearly thirty years in this House. He was a Parliamentarian of outstanding quality and a man of great enthusiasms. One of the things that gives him the greatest pleasure is to think that some of his early enthusiasms—State forests, new towns and even extra-mural departments—have now become part of the Establishment. The constituency which I have the honour to represent is a very pleasant one. With due respect to the Scottish Members, it has scenery unsurpassed in England—nay, in Britain. Its wild flowers are world-famous, notably the blue gentian, but, perhaps of more significance, it has within its confines football teams which are always in danger of keeping the Amateur Cup permanently in or near Bishop Auckland. The working population of South-West Durham has a wonderful tradition of industrial responsibility, of inventiveness in railway engineering and mining and a great tradition of adult education. Indeed, this educational tradition goes back to the London Lead Company of over a hundred years ago and is continued in this century by active and strenuous branches of the Workers' Educational Association. Whether this tradition is responsible for the inventiveness or the responsibility, or even for the political complexion, of the area, I do not know. At least, it is a very sound tradition. Today, however, we are faced with serious difficulties. The pleasantness of the land has a large cloud over it. I hope that the Bill which we are considering today will do something to mitigate the brutal economic forces which are now operating in Durham and, in particular, in my constituency. Since August, 1958, in the Bishop Auckland employment exchange area the unemployment rate has never been below 4·3 per cent. and in February this year it was 7·9 per cent. A month ago, it was 4·9 per cent. Our juvenile unemployment problem is particularly intractable. In the county as a whole, at the last count on 12th October, we had 1,149 juveniles still out of work, or three times what one might say was a tolerable position in the past. The figures conceal real social difficulties. They conceal misemployment of young people, who often have to take jobs well below their capacity. They conceal long travelling distances from villages like Cockfield to Barnard Castle and Darlington, or from Middleton-in-Teesdale to Darlington, travelling conditions which it is not proper to impose upon young people. The figures also conceal the serious problem of migration, to which my right hon. Friend the Member for Llanelly (Mr. J. Griffiths) has referred. In the bad old days of 1931–39, the migration rate from Shildon and Bishop Auckland was 13 per cent. In these relatively good days, it is still 6·5 per cent. There is serious disquiet in my constituency, both in the mining villages and in the country districts, at this serious situation. I hope that the Government will use their industrial development certificates in the way that many of us hope. I am pleased to hear of two loopholes which are to be closed, but I should like the President of the Board of Trade to scan some advertisements which have been cut out from the Financial Times and other newspapers over a period and from which he will read of 20 speculative factories or offices all being for sale or to rent in the congested areas. I beg of him to shut this loophole firmly. My own private opinion is that we need office development certificates. In the North-East—and my hon. Friend the Member for Durham (Mr. Grey) will, no doubt, refer to this on another occasion—we badly need office work so that young people can take work suitable for their talents. There is a long-standing argument in Durham City, in which I am a constituent of my hon. Friend the Member for Durham, for Government Departments. I beg the President of the Board of Trade to use his maximum power to stop mushroom office developments in the congested areas and to steer some of them to our area. I also make this suggestion in relation to non-ferrous mining. There are nine non-ferrous mining areas in the country where, the geologists tell us, there are substantial lead and other deposits at rather considerable depths. The exploitation of these resources is not beyond our capacity. Indeed, I would like to refer the President of the Board of Trade to the Mining Journal of 29th May. I understand that his predecessor was sent a copy. I hope that the present President of the Board of Trade has had a chance to read the article, which states that for the expenditure of about £300,000 in exploratory deep boring and other survey work it would be possible to set flowing about £5 million worth a year of lead and other products. If it is not too much for the theories of the Government, I hope to see them reviving what was operating during the war—the Non-Ferrous Metals Development Company, Limited—to get on with this exploration. It would be of great assistance to us in Teesdale and to my hon. Friend the Member for Durham, North-West (Mr. Ainsley), who has the same problem in Weardale. We on this side also ask—this is non-controversial—that more thought should be given in industrial research to looking into the future. The Economic Section of the Treasury is rather poorly staffed. Indeed, a former deputy-director of that section said that it was too small and too busy … for any profound study of long-term policy issues. We need a study of long-term policy issues and we also need considerable study of our local problems from the Board of Trade. In the county in which I have the honour to be a Member, the planning department of the county council spends a good deal of its time and energies in trying to do its own research and trying to attract industry by putting the economic facts of the county to in dustrialists. We need considerable strengthening in this direction from the Board of Trade. I hope that the Bill will be administered with vigour. Its vigorous administration is more important than some of its Clauses. I hope that it will be administered so vigorously and with so much foresight that those of us who represent mining constituencies and rural constituencies—indeed, those of us from the North-East generally—will find, as 1960 goes by, that we have no more Questions to direct to the President of the Board of Trade or to the Minister of Labour.
