gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Having succeeded in catching your eye, Mr. Speaker, I feel that I stand especially in need of the indulgence which a merciful tradition accords to maiden speakers, particularly as the atom bomb seems to have dominated this discussion. If I make a speech which is controversial I shall be rebuked for a breach of tradition; if, on the other hand, I confine myself to pious platitudes, there may be some who will accuse me of trespassing on the preserves of the Front Bench. Be that as it may, I must persevere and I trust that the House will forgive me if, unintentionally, I sin against either its custom or its rule. I feel a very high honour has been conferred upon me in the privilege of addressing the House today in this important Debate. As I read President Truman's now momentous declaration, I could not help feeling that it is not the generalisations that he expresses which are of importance, but the intentions which one can deduce from them. There are two intentions which stand out in my mind as the only certainties from his pronouncement. One is that the United  States of America intends to maintain enormous armed forces of all kinds, and the second is that she intends to continue manufacturing the atom bomb as her own secret of manufacture, as part of those national forces. With great respect to the right hon. Gentleman who leads the Opposition, and naive as I am in comparison with his great experience in these matters, I must confess that I treat with great reserve generalised declarations and their effect, and I am more concerned with what I consider to be the immediate practical steps which Governments are taking. I regret that I treat also with some scepticism the statement by the Leader of the Opposition that a declaration such as this would have avoided this war, that war or any other war. In my respectful submission, declarations will not avoid wars. What is needed is action deliberately planned to secure peace. I know that it is now said that all these national armaments are wanted in the cause of peace. The Foreign Secretary referred to our intention to police the world. Unfortunately, there are a number of competitors for this job, and it is now quite clear that the three Powers have each staked their claim to be the world policeman—not, apparently, in unison or by arrangement with some united organisation, but as an individual decision on the part of their Governments. They claim the right to keep on the backs of the peoples of the world this staggering cost of armament for many years to come, because nobody seems to envisage an early step being taken towards disarmament. They seem to envisage that the peoples of the world are going to be conscripted because they will not come voluntarily into the massed armies which everybody, with apparent equanimity, contemplates as a feature of the postwar world. If the music for the overture is to be the tramp of millions of armed soldiers and the clang of arsenals and factories turning out the munitions of war, amongst them the atom bomb, I think we must be very naïve if we expect the curtain to go up on a play called ""Peace and Reconstruction."" In my submission it is the duty of the British Government to exercise the moral leadership it claims by taking early steps which are in accord with the demands of the common people of all lands to reduce the burden of armaments and to   reduce the burden of conscription and war service now that the war has been won. I want to make it clear that we in England accepted our duty to serve in this war without question in the national interest, but we want that service to come to an end and to come to an end very soon, just so soon as the national safety will permit. We do not like conscription, we ordinary Englishmen, in peace time particularly, and we are under no illusions that when we gave up our liberties and accepted it for the time being it was not palatable. We do not consider even the voluntary acceptance of chains as being the equivalent of liberty, and we are anxious to see that the people of this land are not fettered by the logical consequence of acceptance of a policy of great arms and great armies in the post-war years. An attractive theory is commonly held which accounts for the fact that nobody now cares to take the commonsense view that the first step towards peace is to try to get some international agreement for reducing arms and armies, and that attractive theory is that this war was brought about because this country was not prepared for war. I can understand hon. Members on the benches opposite holding that view, but for the life of me I cannot understand why it has any attractions for the Members on this side. Hon. Members opposite, for the most part, need it as an excuse for the policy which led to the war, which was, in fact, a policy precisely the same as that they are advocating today—I do not say they do it with any evil intent—the policy of nationalism, the policy of not honestly trusting or believing in an international organisation but all the time preferring this alliance or that alliance according as the needs of power politics prompt them from time to time. It may be said that hon. Members opposite have been chastened and that they now believe in international organisation. I should like to believe it. I am not anxious to jeer at them, because repentant sinners, we are told, are very welcome. In the eyes of the angels, I believe they are equal to ten righteous men, though I am afraid the proportions of those pious mathematics are not likely to prevail in the Division Lobby. For my own party, as we are a Government, I think it is our duty to make  it plain to the nation and to the peoples of the world that we do not envisage our security, or world security, as being any longer obtainable by those outworn methods of purely selfish nationalism. The atom bomb in particular has made them obsolete. I know there are some people in this country, and they used to exist before the war, who really believe that military service is desirable for our people, that they have always longed to put on us the same sort of fetters as have been accepted as part of the normal routine of Continental life. The same gentlemen used to go to Nazi Germany before the war and paint glowing pictures of the fine, upstanding Nazi conscripts. We now know what those fine, upstanding young conscripts had to make in the way of a contribution to the cultural and physical welfare of Europe—all the ravaging and suffering they inflicted, finally bringing down in misery and ruin their own country. So we are not anxious to have any predisposition in favour of imitating those who advocate military service for its own sake. If those people are so interested in producing healthy young people I suggest they should express that willingness by voting one-tenth of the sum required for maintaining them in armed camps for providing youth clubs and means of healthy exercise for these youngsters without any relation to war at all. I say that not in any sense as a pacifist. This brings me to the second point, the atom bomb. The attitude of the people of the world to the atom bomb is, I regret to say, something of a vote of ""No confidence"" in world leadership. It is plain that he is not welcoming this giant stride forward in the mastery over Nature that man has achieved. The average man in the street does not believe that he is going to get motor cars that will drive him round the world for 6d., or ovens that will cook sponge cakes for next to nothing in a few seconds. He knows what he will get from the atom bomb, if our present rulers go on. He does not expect benefits, he expects destruction—unless by some magical process the statesmen of the world buck up their ideas. It is plain that none of the pronouncements they have made so far have given the common man any confidence in the policies being pursued. I regret to have to say that the reaction of the average commonsense individual   to the atom bomb is that he feels that his statesmen are very little men who are facing a problem far too big for them. To adapt a well-known saying, the mice have been in labour on this subject and they have given birth to a mountain of platitudes, but very little in the way of a practical policy. What is required is not so much the internationalisation of knowledge on this subject as a genuine, honest, international attempt to prevent the making of this bomb at all. Nobody seems to have suggested that, and I hate to appear in the light of the small boy who pointed out the nudity of people in the court, but I am bound to say that, speaking as an ordinary man who does not relish the idea of being blown to pieces or disintegrated with his family in a few years' time, I should welcome a statement from the Foreign Secretary that the Government are anxious not to make this bomb at all, but anxious to see whether means cannot be found whereby the peaceful purposes of nuclear research are not prejudiced and the horrible possibilities of atomic bomb management are disavowed at the earliest opportunity. I do not believe that a ""police force,"" such as countries are so fond of calling their enormous array of armed might, requires the atomic bomb. In the declarations by Governments about how they intend to use their enormous forces we are told they are intended for peaceful purposes, but I do not feel very reassured, because the only use our statesmen have made so far of the United Nations Organisation has been as an excuse for having enormous armaments for an indefinite period of time. The second point one ought to have hi mind when one sees how many countries are maintaining armies and their capacity for the production of weapons is that we are forming an international peace organisation and not a suicide club, and it seems to me that this point is entirely neglected when the Foreign Secretary gets up and, being himself the arch-type of light English humour, tolerance and good sense, tries to persuade us that the mighty armies which we and our Allies—or shall I say ex-Allies, because there is a possibility of that happening in a few years or sooner—are only harmless ""bobbies"" on the beat. I do not know whether the policeman's lot will be a  happy one if this idea of every nation deciding to police the world is adopted, but the lot of the people of the world will not be enviable in the not distant future. The three Powers, America, England and the U.S.S.R., have a duty, in my submission, consistent with their responsibilities. It ought not to be forgotten that those who are the only wielders of decisive economic power and decisive military power at a given period are the people on whom responsibility rests for forming the world, and they cannot escape that responsibility by saying, ""We must have Cuba, Paraguay, and Timbuctoo brought into the Conference."" There are three Powers who have the duty among them of laying the foundations for world peace. The first step in performing that duty is to release the world from the incubus of these fantastic armaments which are bleeding the world of its productive capacity at the present time. People generally do not like being chivvied or badgered about by Colonel Blimp or people of the sergeant-major mentality in their formative years when they ought to be producing something useful. It is as well, incidentally, to bear in mind that Colonel Blimp is probably at present an acting-brigadier and is not anxious to lose his establishment by going back to the old conditions and his old cartoon status. It seems to me that these are the problems to which the Foreign Secretary and the Government ought to address their minds. I urge upon the Prime Minister that when he goes to the United States he will bear in mind that the people of this world, and particularly of this country, after six years of war are crying out for peace and reduction of armaments, and that in their attempt to secure permanent peace the Prime Minister, the President of the United States and Monsieur Stalin should really set about the practical job of achieving unity on this matter and of providing relief for the world, as that may very well prove to be the key which will unlock the door to a solution of the problems which stand in the way of unity. They may provide the way to secure peace not only for the United Nations and not only for ourselves, but so that all nations of the world, small and large, will be able to live in peace.
