gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House on rising for the first time to take part in its deliberations. I do so on this occasion because it affords me the greatest pleasure to see that the Gracious Speech makes reference to proposed legislation to give further encouragement to the transfer of industrial undertakings to the development areas. I represent a mining constituency in South Wales, where there was mass unemployment in the inter-war years. This condition no longer exists, there is now full employment for able-bodied men. Factories have been established which have given employment to large numbers of men and women. We are no longer a distressed area. At the same time, we have in South Wales a problem due to the high percentage of men who are certified as suffering from pneumoconiosis. That disease is due to the inhalation of mineral dust, which solidifies in the lungs and gives rise to various degrees of disability, and, in too many cases, to death. The human suffering and loss of manpower due to pneumoconiosis finds no parallel in any coalfield in this country, or in any other industry. The disease is largely due to the nature of the strata of coal mined in South Wales, and to the neglect to take preventive methods to allay the dust in the pits; and, in turn, this was largely due to the lack of initiative by private enterprise before nationalisation. It may interest the House to know that from 1937 until 1948 there were certified in the South Wales coalfields as suffering from pneumoconiosis 17,297 workmen, in a matter of 12 years. In addition, 1,334 men died from the disease in the same period. The House will therefore. appreciate that when we support the Gracious Speech in asking for the setting up of industries in South Wales, we are attempting to solve the problem of finding employment for a large body of men. Although 30,000 men have gone out of the industry during the years  which I have mentioned, great credit is due to the Ministry of Labour and to the Board of Trade, which have been able to lower the rate of unemployment among disabled men to 5,000. Just under 5,000 men are now unemployed in South Wales, and they are actually disabled. If we take an average of three per family, there are 15,000 people existing upon unemployment benefit in South Wales. There is no room for complacency on this matter. It will be generally agreed that coal mining is vital to our national economy. The hon. Member who preceded me referred to the economic position of this country. Coal mining lies at the basis of our national economy. We had a long Debate yesterday on steel. I would remind the House that there can be no steel without coal, and that no coal can be produced without men. Young men will be reluctant to enter the industry without being guaranteed suitable employment in the event of disability. The establishment of further industries should enable the Government to give such guarantees. I have been the compensation secretary of the Miners' Federation in South Wales for many years and I know, as a result of meetings and conferences that have taken place from time to time during the past two years, that firms are reluctant to come to South Wales and set up factories for the employment of disabled men. Some employers have come to South Wales, but their numbers are relatively small. If private enterprise cannot come to South Wales to try to absorb the thousands of men disabled, in particular because of pneumoconiosis, the Government should establish factories and run them in the interests of the community. At New Tredegar, Monmouthshire, in my constituency, as in so many other parts of the coalfield in South Wales, the community depends entirely upon the working of the neighbouring pit. Scores of men in that neighbourhood are suffering from pneumoconiosis and are idle. If this disease can be dealt with, and if the men are given security by being given suitable work at a factory in that district, a very great degree of confidence will be created. This is one of the problems arising from the legacy of the past. It is our duty to adopt every scientific means to combat this disease. The Minister of Fuel and Power and the National Coal Board   have encouraged methods such as water infusion and wet cutting, and I am pleased to see that during the last 12 months there has been a slight decline in the number of men certified as suffering from pneumoconiosis. I contend that wet cutting, water infusion, and all the processes which go towards making mines safer, should be compulsorily applied to every pit, particularly in the South Wales coalfield. All men should be periodically examined. In the factories, and in many branches of the Civil Service, persons are examined from time to time to ascertain whether they have tuberculosis, yet in the mining industry, which is so vital to our national economy, there are no periodic examinations until a man has been certified. It is left to the men to apply to go to a medical board but in many cases they do not apply until too late. When they are examined they are discovered to be in the later stages of the disease, and thus they are lost to the industry. At a time when manpower is so short everything should be done to maintain the supply of labour in the pits. I hope the time is not far distant when it will be possible to apply periodic examinations to all the men in the mining industry. Perhaps I might sum up by saying that if the Government give a guarantee of suitable employment for men in the mining industry, if they can watch the health of those employed in it by means of periodic examinations, and can introduce compulsory methods to prevent pneumoconiosis, they will go a very long way towards putting the mining industry on a firm and sure foundation. Not only would manpower be saved but I am convinced that recruitment for the mines would be helped in a far more effective way than by the bills and posters we see on the hoardings up and down the country. The miners have made a great response to the nation's call. They can help us to win the battle of the gap, but, in return, it is the responsibility of the nation to see that the men employed in the industry are given safeguards to health and welfare in every respect. I hope that as a result of this small contribution to the Debate, this maiden speech of mine this afternoon, there will be some outcome in the way of greater means of safety to those employed in the mining industry.
