gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to speak in this Committee for the first time, I wish to beg the indulgence of its Members, and I am sure that that indulgence will not be denied merely because it has been granted  so frequently during the past few weeks. I am particularly happy that I shall be able to speak on this occasion—the occasion of the first Budget presented by this Government. I have the honour to represent a constituency which forms part of the vast dormitory of South London, and I can tell hon. Members present that there was considerable rejoicing there last night, when the news came through of the recommendations made by the Chancellor. I hope this will be the first of a series of Budgets for the little man. I congratulate the Chancellor on listening, on this occasion, to the voices in the back streets of our towns and villages, instead of, as so often in the past Chancellors have listened, to the voices of the banking barons and men of big business. I can assure him that the rejoicing among those 2,000,000 workers who, during the war, had to bear that extra burden of taxation in addition to the hard work they put in in the factories and offices, will more than recompense the little sadness among a small group of Surtax-payers who may think they have not been so well treated. I knew, before this Debate started, that the hon. Member for South Dorset (Viscount Hinchingbrooke) would not agree with the views expressed by the Chancellor on the need for continued savings. I was, therefore, very glad to note that a more august person, to wit, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), only as recently as Monday, gave his blessing to the intentions of the Chancellor. I would remind this Committee that the right hon. Gentleman said that one of the vices of capitalism is the unequal sharing of its blessings. This Budget has achieved, above all else, a lessening of the gap between extremes of incomes, and I am sure, if only for that reason, it will earn commendation throughout the country. I am not so happy about a further remark made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford yesterday. He gave three causes of inflation in this country. I think we all agree about the first two, namely, the use of the printing press which has distinguished other countries in the past, and, secondly, the insufficiency of the supply of goods. Then he gave us his third reason—when a Government have to come and borrow thousands of millions of pounds. I sug-   gest that that is rather facile and general, and I can only conclude it was offered yesterday in that kind of way. I would remind members of this Committee that that is precisely what the Government had to do during this war, and that, despite the fact that it borrowed thousands of millions of pounds, it did succeed, largely as a result of its borrowing, in pegging down the cost of living to 131. I would ask hon. Members to look more closely at this effect of borrowing because I think it is likely to be the essence of future Budgets on the part of the present Chancellor. I suggest that inasmuch as the Chancellor borrows out of income, the only effect that borrowing has is to transfer spending from one direction to another, and, inasmuch as it is a wise and sensible Government that is redirecting that expenditure, we can only conclude it will be to the social good. To the extent that that borrowing is for a long-term purpose, it will even have a deflationary tendency, and, at a time like this, when we all know there is not the supply of goods available, it is a good thing, not only through taxation, but also through borrowing, to defer that expenditure to a later stage. I am quite certain that, in the years to come, the money that is withdrawn from circulation through borrowing now will be used to greater advantage. Therefore, I hope that the Chancellor will continue that policy of borrowing. I would remind hon. Members, too, that this is the first Labour Government with a real majority, and that it has entered office after six years of the devastation of war. It would be most improper to let money circulate freely at this time, since it could only have that inflationary tendency which we all desire to avoid. If the money which we borrowed is, as I am sure it will be, used for social and material reconstruction, then the advantage that will accrue will, I believe, be to the satisfaction even of hon. Members opposite, in the years to come. In that connection, I was particularly pleased to learn from the Chancellor that he does not propose, in the immediate future, to close the gap between income and expenditure because, once again, in my view, that would be a most unreasonable thing to do at present, or even for some years to come. No commercial concern attempts to balance its accounts every 12 months,  except on paper. In good times, it builds up reserves, in order to be able to pay a dividend when times are not so good. It has various ways and means open to it to create hidden reserves, and to depreciate its assets, so as to create those hidden reserves, against a more unfortunate future. I suggest, therefore, it is the greatest concern to all that, when times are good, we should accumulate reserves, both obvious and hidden, and use them to steady our accounts when times are bad. Times are bad now, and are likely to be bad for a few years to come. Therefore, rather than close this gap, rather than present this year, or next, a set of accounts which look very nice on paper, I would encourage the Chancellor to continue to borrow, and to continue to leave that gap unclosed until, as a result of his wise expenditure, he can arrive at better times and can begin to accumulate further reserves In conclusion, I am mindful that, on this first occasion, it is unwise to press too hardly on the indulgence of hon. Members, but I would like to end on a philosophical note, and take from its context a line of Shakespeare, and say of this Budget: …it is twice blessed; it blesseth him that gives, and him that takes. Even those who are asked to give in the form of Surtax have the satisfaction of knowing that they are giving for a good cause—I think even hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite will agree with me that it is in a good cause—and, incidentally, of knowing that, in many instances, they are likely to get some money back through the reduction of Excess Profits Tax. I would say to that gloomy individual who glances morosely round his baronial hall, wondering how he is going to make do on a mere £5,000 or £10,000 a year, because of his extreme position, to be of good cheer because soon, and very soon, the Government are going to relieve him of much of his worry and responsibility. The Government are going to relieve him of that worry and responsibility that attaches to his Bank of England stock and his mining shares, and the heavy burden of the broad acres that surround his ancestral hall, and, what is most probable, they are even likely to make provision for him in that grand scheme of National   Insurance which is now in preparation. Likewise I would also bid the little man in the street to be of good cheer, because I am sure that these concessions which have provided so much rejoicing and happiness to-day reflect but a tiny gleam of that splendid future to which we are all stepping forward together, that new era, the era of the common man.
