gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I want to make one or two observations on the Bill and on the Amendment. First a word about hospitals and their charities. I think it ought to be underlined, for it does not seem very clear from the discussion I have heard in this Chamber, that we on this side do not regard charity as being an end in itself. It ought to be understood throughout the country, and certainly by the Opposition, that the one increasing purpose of the present Government is not to perpetuate charity but to eliminate the need for it, or at least to minimise it. A picture has been presented of how the hospitals are financed. I do not think sufficient stress has been laid on the fact that a very substantial part of the hospital incomes is derived from the weekly contributions of the working man and working woman. But that is not all, and that is not the only way in which the worker pays. There is a case known to me of an industrialist, a large employer of labour, in whose factories trade union organisation was taboo, and trade union wages and conditions also were taboo. As a direct consequence of this embargo on the free association of his people, his wages bill was little more than two-thirds of what it would have been had he observed trade union agreements. However, he was a big-hearted fellow and he had built and equipped at his expense an operating theatre. He had built at his expense a hospital ward, and he equipped that. That man will not be remembered in local history because he was a bad employer; he will be remembered as a philanthropist. These fillibustering philanthropists are pretty common just now. We are not concerned about them, because I am satisfied, if I know anything at all about  working men and working women, that they do not want charity whether the source is good or bad. Charity at its best humiliates. What an absurdity it would have been in September, 1939, had someone suggested then that we should limit our expenditure on the war to the charity of patriotic people. If that had been the position, we would not have been meeting here tonight in the British House of Commons. It was proper that we should use the financial resources of the State, it was proper that we should accept a certain measure of State control, and it seems to me to be just horse sense that if you harness the resources of the State for the purpose of destroying life, it is more in keeping with 20th century civilisation that we should harness those same resources for the purpose of saving life. That is precisely the purpose of this Bill. If existing facilities were adequate probably there would have been a different story to tell. It may be that in some places they are adequate; I can only speak of those places which I know. I have the honour to represent Leigh in Lancashire a mining community which comprises a non-county borough and two urban districts. The whole of the area is a coalfield. The population is about 85,000, of which approximately 13,000 people get their living in the dirtiest and most dangerous occupation we have—in the pits. There is one hospital catering for the whole constituency, the Leigh Infirmary, a small hospital completely inadequate to the needs of the district. In the outpatients department it is cruelly inadequate. The hon. and gallant Member for South Belfast (Lieut.-Colonel Gage) spoke of being moved when he saw queues of people waiting inside hospitals. At Leigh he would find at this hospital, catering for 85,000 people, a waiting room for the outpatients which will not hold more than 40 people. The people waiting for treatment go into the corridors, overspill outside, and wait there whatever the weather. It is so easy, too easy, to pat hospital staffs and boards of management on the back and say, ""Well done, a magnificent job done under difficult circumstances."" It is humbug, cant and hypocrisy, unless we are going to do something to alter those circumstances. It has been in the power of Parliament for a very long time to do something, but nothing has been done.   I welcome this Bill as strongly as I deprecate the Amendment. I am, however, very unhappy about one section of the Bill, that concerning the family doctor service. I have every reason to believe, from what I heard the Minister say yesterday, that he is no more happy about it than I am. It so happens that before I came into the House I was for 10 years a trade union official, and throughout that time I was taking part in negotiations. I know how heartbreaking it is when one is asking for something to which one thinks one is justly entitled, to realise the price that must be paid for it. I have the greatest respect for the Minister, for his ability and sincerity, but I am bound to be frank about this—I think he has paid too high a price. He has paid too high a price by allowing the concession that a doctor who participates in the service can also take fees for his doctoring. I have spoken of the ability of the Minister, but I think it would require someone far more able than the Minister—if such a person can be found—to convince a miner in my constituency that he will get the same treatment as the mineowner who can pay for it. It is said that the relationship between doctor and patient is a psychological one. That is where psychology will come into the problem. There will be people who by reason of social snobbery or plain ignorance will go to the doctor who prefers to remain outside the service. These people are going to create the impression among those who remain in the service that in this Bill we have simply an enlargement of the panel system. I notice that the Minister said that it will probably help to clamp down the black market in the medical service. I am interested in this matter. I am also interested in the retail trade. I do not know of any such concession being made to retailers. Yet if some of these people are caught engaging in the black market they are clamped down pretty heavily. Another point which disturbs me is in regard to the major authorities, the county councils and county borough councils and the powers they are given under some Clauses of this Bill. When Bills sponsored by the Lancashire, Cheshire and Nottinghamshire county councils were presented to the House recently, Members in all parts of the House took strong objection and the Minister said that  if those Bills were withdrawn he would insert a Clause in another Bill coming before the House. It seems to me that here is the fundamental principle again in this Bill and I see no reason why non-county boroughs should be left out. I know a great deal is said about the size of the non-county boroughs but it is a fact that many non-county boroughs are bigger numerically than county boroughs. It seems that the only fault of the non-county boroughs is that they have refused to grow up into oversized, ugly, sprawling townships. It ought to be said, in fairness to non-county boroughs, that many of them have shown initiative, enterprise, and, what is more important, have demonstrated efficiency which would do credit to many major authorities. One final comment on the Amendment. I am one of those who believe that whichever party sits on this side of the House, it is necessary, in the interests of healthy Parliamentary government, that we should have sitting on the other side a virile Opposition. Therefore, I welcome an active interest, even to the point of seeing the Opposition put down Amendments. But so far as I can see the only purpose of this Amendment is that it cries ""stinking fish"" on behalf of its sponsors.
