gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
When I came here this morning I had no intention of speaking but, after hearing the speeches which have already been made, I feel very moved to speak on this great problem of the colour bar. The hon. Member for Wavertree (Mr. Tilney) could almost have convinced me, had I not seen on which side of this Chamber he sits, that he was in many respects arguing for the Motion. The hon. Member for Colchester (Mr. Alport)   said that this problem was one of a cultural and spiritual outlook. We all agree that this problem of the colour bar involves both cultural and spiritual questions, but I submit that we must apply our ideals and our beliefs in a practical measure. The hon. Member for Spelthorne (Mr. Beresford Craddock) made the point that he was looking at this problem from a Christian attitude. I suggest that the leader of the Christian point of view said very emphatically that we must go out and do good to other people; that we must put into practice the things for which we stand. The only way in which we can approach this problem is by introducing—perhaps gradually, but nevertheless definitely—legislative measures which will at any rate lay down standards upon which we can build up better human relations between the peoples in different countries. The Amendment which has been put down accepts most of the Motion with regard to breaking down the colour bar, but it perpetuates the outlook which has been established over many years towards this problem. One hon. Member referred to the problem of educational opportunity and, when questioned by another hon. Member, immediately began to lay down the barriers to which we are objecting in this Motion. He admitted that he did not want to see schools established in which white and black children could be educated together. I am reminded that much the same arguments were used in this country when we were fighting for increased educational opportunities for working children. It was said that working children were unable to benefit by being given a full opportunity to be educated, and the same kind of argument is being put forward now in the case of the coloured people. If we are to break down the colour bar and develop the integrity which we have been told the Africans lack we must begin right at the very bottom and, by means of giving them a full and equal opportunity, not only build up a possibility of giving to the Africans their chance to become educated but also of making them feel that we mean what we are saying. It is no good paying lip service to great organisations like the World Health  Organisation, or saying that technical aid should be given them, or allocating more money to free the Africans from disease, unless at the same time we admit in our own minds and show by our own actions that every human being, no matter where he lives or what is his colour, has at least the elementary rights of human association and human relations. I have spent a great deal of my life in the Co-operative movement, and I am very proud of that. The Co-operative movement's motto is, ""Each for all and all for each"" and it has endeavoured to set up co-operative societies of all kinds in which white and coloured people meet on equal terms. It has laid down the fundamental co-operative principals to be applied not only to people in this country but to those in other countries in which co-operative societies are formed. It is through the success of co-operative organisations in Africa and other parts of the world that we have seen that it is practical for people to meet on equal terms and do jobs which will give them an opportunity to lead a fuller and wider life. It is through such organisations that we have proved it possible for democracy to be appreciated and to be put into operation by black people as well as white. As a woman, I am deeply concerned about the way in which womenfolk are treated in many parts of Africa today. This week we have discussed the question of increased maternity benefits for the women of this country, but for a long time we have denied to the African women the right to have even elementary maternity care and benefits. The Co-operative movement in Nigeria has established its own co-operative maternity hospital. Why?—because we have denied the Nigerians the right to establish those maternity hospitals for which we have fought and have established here. The womenfolk in Africa are mothers, just as we are. Cannot we imagine that when they see their children separated from white children, and when they themselves are prevented from meeting and shopping in the same places as white people, those womenfolk begin to feel that every white man is against them? We are living in a quickly changing world, and we must   develop a quickly changing outlook to this question of the colour bar. I think we all realise that we are living on the edge of a potential new war. Because of the problems which have arisen, not just during the last few months, but because of our approach over a long number of years to these people, we are facing another difficulty. We may be solving the problem of war in one part of the world, but we may be preparing for war in another part, and perhaps that war will bring greater devastation, fear and trouble than anything in the past. If we give to these people a new faith in our approach to their interests and if we are to break down the prejudices, superstition and fears that have been built up over a long period, then I sincerely believe we must do it in a bold way. It is not a bold way to be passive about it, as the Amendment suggests, but rather by introducing legislative Measures which will, at any rate, set a standard of living superior to anything that has been attained in these territories in the past. Do not let us forget that in this country over 100 years ago we had to pass legislation in order to set better standards of health and life in our own factories for our own people. We should not agree to the Amendment, but should go all out for the Motion so that these people who are looking to us for a lead—and I believe they are—will get a better standard of British justice and by a 20th century approach to these matters.
