gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Gentleman the Member for Banbury (Mr. Dodds-Parker) will, in turn, perhaps forgive me if I do not follow him in the special points he has raised in this Debate. The Defence White Paper provides an opportunity for a large-scale discussion on Imperial Defence which is not possible on the Service Estimates. In prewar years the whole range of policy was covered, and there were Debates on such subjects as the effect of air power on ships. This is the line I wish particularly to develop, especially as I understand that my right hon Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty is to wind up this Debate tomorrow night Admittedly, prewar White Papers had more detailed information than this one, and my criticism is that this one should have contained more meat into which we could have got our teeth for the benefit of  the nation, the Empire and the world at large. For example, ""The Times,"" in its leading article on Friday last, stated: There are tactical developments affecting armaments and equipment; the chief of which is the tendency, if it is not already more than that, of the aircraft carrier to take the place of the battleship as the major unit of the battle fleet. The American Navy have already made up their mind, and there is no reason why the British Admiralty should not also have done so. ""The Times"" Washington correspondent, in a message dated 7th February, said: The battleship is no longer the spearhead of the American Fleet. In his annual report to the President, the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Forrestal says that the aircraft carrier is now the spearhead, and that just as the battleship had to have fleet complements and auxiliaries, so the carrier must have them. Mr. Forrestal places the battleship in this auxiliary category, along with the cruiser, long range destroyer and submarine. This problem of battleship vis-à -vis aircraft carrier raises the whole question of the necessity or desirability of the battleship at all. The argument is likely to be heard during the Debate that the battleship is obsolete, because of aircraft or atom bomb attacks. I will not develop that argument, but content myself with the brief retort that the antidote to aircraft attack on ships, as on any other target, is aircraft The atom bomb, like poison gas, may not be used, because of the fear of reprisals. Moreover, there ought to be universal agreement not to manufacture atom bombs. In spite of these views, however, I strongly urge the abolition of the battleship on two grounds — one, commonsense and two, because, in the words of the White Paper, … a severe reduction in the output of weapons and equipment for the Forces is essential, not only in the interests of our economic recovery, but also to avoid the accumulation of obsolescent munitions. At one time, a battleship cost £ 1,000,000, then it went up to £ 5,000,000, and just before the war was £ 10,000,000. Now, the cost would probably be £ 20,000,000. This is quite fantastic. Here is a class of ship from which all nations with them would save the greatest amount of money by its abolition. The Navy's main duty, in so far as defence of the Empire is concerned, that is without considering our commitments under the United Nations organisation, is, to quote the White Paper:   The safeguarding of our communications and upkeep of our bases … This is essential for the efficiency and mobility of our Forces by sea. land and air. So long as our main supplies have to come by sea — and they will have to do so for many years to come — we must have a Navy adequate to protect our Merchant Fleet and secure the passage of our Forces overseas. But it all depends on what is meant by the word ""adequate."" There is no greater champion of my late Service than myself, provided we have the right ships, the right weapons and the right methods of entry and training of officers and men. Otherwise, there will be no greater critic. Today, we are at the four crossroads of a climacteric in world history and wrong decisions will jeopardise the future of our children, our grandchildren and many generations to come. The policy which would be best for this country, the Empire and the world is one of universal disarmament, with the smallest possible police forces under the United Nations organisation. After all, in home affairs you do not give everyone a gun in order to preserve peace. Instead, the Home Secretary makes a broadcast appeal for people to hand over their arms to the police. Twice in the lives of most of us the armaments race has led to a worldwide conflagration. Cannot we avoid a third? One of the few great practical international successes between the wars was the Washington Naval Conference and Treaty of 1922. Among the successes achieved there by the five great naval Powers, Britain, America, Japan, France and Italy, was the limitation in numbers and sizes of new battleships, and the scrapping of several of the older ones. Despite the criticisms of numerous Tories and other reactionaries, this was not unilateral disarmament; it was universal disarmament in which America and Japan played their part. For a number of years the battle of the battleship building yards was drastically checked, with considerable advantage to all concerned. At that time there was a large body of informed opinion on both sides of the Atlantic and elsewhere which hoped that common sense would continue to prevail, and that no more battleships would ever be built. Then it was difficult to reconcile the various demands of five Powers. Today, the problem is much easier, because  Japan and Italy are out of the picture. In the main, it is simply a case of getting agreement between the United States and ourselves, and carrying the Soviet Union and France along with us. I suggest that public opinion on both sides of the Atlantic should be mobilised, and that the British Government should take the lead in advocating another Washington Naval Disarmament Conference for the drastic reduction of warships, both by classes and numbers. Even naval opinion in America could be influenced by such a lead and positive action The main purpose of the battleship is to fight the battleship, but at present, again to take ""The Times"" Washington correspondent's report of the statement of the Secretary of the Navy, America has only four battleships in full commission, with six in a ready reserve fleet and seven in a laid up reserve fleet, a total of 17. Our battleship strength, given tome in answer to a Question recently, is 10, with five more in an unmaintained reserve, the same total, 15, as that with which we began the war. I would also urge the universal abolition of the submarine. Britain and other nations have been prepared to do this in the past, but universal agreement has not been possible Today, fewer Powers are concerned, and they arc our Allies, and should have no wish to go on with submarines. Here the position is different from that in regard to the battleship, because the submarine is not the antidote to the submarine, and consequently, there is no justification to build them for that reason. Despite the U-boat successes at certain periods of World War 2, the day of the submarine is past. Once a submarine could be detected under water, it lost its main asset of invisibility when submerged. And efficient detection apparatus, the Asdic, was achieved just after World War 1, as I know, having served in the anti-submarine flotilla from 1922 to 1924. In World War 1, we had not the answer to the U-boat Then it was a problem of scientific investigation and development. Not so in the last war. Then it was not strategy, tactics or scientific investigation, but simply arithmetic. With France on our side, the U-boat was defeated in 1939–40. France capitulated, Italy came into the war with another 100 submarines,   and our anti-submarine flotillas were not sufficient to maintain the mastery. Nevertheless, the British Navy alone, except for the 50 old Lend-Lease American destroyers, again mastered the U-boat in 1941. When America came into the war, the scene of operations moved to the other side of the Atlantic. The submarine was predominant for the time being, until sufficient escort ships and aircraft were provided, and then the submarine was mastered for good and all. Consequently, there is no question that one is justified in saying that the day of the submarine is past. Another advantage of the abolition of he submarine would be the removal of the necessity for such a vast number of escort vessels and aircraft for anti-submarine duties even though both weapons are used for other purposes. The number and size of other ships should also be severely restricted by international agreement, to avoid a mad race in carriers, cruisers and smaller vessels. A balanced fleet would then consist of medium aircraft carriers, medium cruisers, and such smaller vessels as are required under the new conditions. Another important point arises with a much smaller Navy. The Dominions, unscathed by war damage, would be able to carry a much higher proportion of the expense than they did before 1939, and so relieve Britain of paying the lion's share of what should be an Empire burden. Above all else, the Allied nations must avoid another idiotic ""battle of the building yards."" The financial saving would be tremendous, which is of particular importance at present in a devastated world. Moreover, it would remove, or at least reduce, the risk of war. The great Powers are considering what forces are necessary under the United Nations organisation. I suggest that the question of forces should be approached from the other angle of disarmament, with a frank disclosure of the police forces maintained, and no secret building. Before World War II, the Soviet Union was reluctant to disclose any figures of her armaments. Today, her position is totally different. The menace from the West in Germany, and the menace from the East in Japan, have gone, if not for all time, for a considerable period. Much is, therefore, to be gained from her point of view as well as from ours, from a new Naval Conference, conducted in good will, with all the card; on the table face  upwards. Is it beyond the ability of the three great Allies, who defeated, by combined agreement, three major enemies in the greatest war in history, to disarm, so that instead of frittering away their birthright in the mass destruction of mankind, they will be able to devote their great resources and manpower to the improvement of the life of their people and of the people of the world?
