gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time that I have had the honour to addressing this House, and I crave the indulgence and tolerance customary on such occasions. I have the honour to succeed, as Member for a Stirlin and Falkirk Burghs, the late Malcolm Stirling who I know was held in high regard by hon. Members on both sides of this House. Malcolm MacPherson was a quiet, retiring type of person whose main interest in politics was education, but I should be failing in my duty both to my constituents and to this House if I did not comment that his prime concern was his constituency. No higher tribute could be paid to the late Malcolm MacPherson. The constituency which I represent is made up of three areas: the county town of Stirling, Falkirk, and the very fast expanding town of Grangemouth. The county town of Stirling is a mixture of industry and of tourism. While the new emerging Stirling University is not itself in the constituency, the county town lends its name to this famous university. Its industry is light industry, and its tourism has brought it fame in that it is now known as the ""Gateway to the Highlands"". Falkirk, if I could portray a picture of it, is solely an iron town, being the home of iron founding in Scotland and, to a large extent, in Great Britain. It speaks volumes for its iron-founding firms that they have managed to modernise their plant and machinery, and there is now situated in Falkirk one of the most modern, up-to-date foundries in Europe. Grangemouth, whose name will be added to the title of the constituency after the next General Election, is well known both inside and outside this House as the centre of the oil industry in Scotland. It possesses many more industries, of course—saw mills, whisky distilling and bottling—and the docks are among the most modern in Great Britain. There are industries in Grangemouth for which we are grateful, because, for a very long time indeed, it has been relatively easy to gain employment in my constituency. But this picture is changing rapidly. There was a time in our history when we considered that the problem which related solely to Scotland, namely, the regional problem, was being solved. Without wanting to be controversial in this, my maiden speech, I must make the point that the unemployment figures in Scotland last week clearly indicated that the regional problem from which we suffer is far from being solved. This brings me to the point that I want to make about the Common Market. I have just contested a by-election. One hon. Gentleman today said that he had held 71 meetings in his constituency. I claim—I am sure that hon. Members will respect my claim—to have been closer to the electorate in the last six to 12 weeks than many hon. Members in this House by virtue of having contested this by-election. I want to be perfectly honest with the House. It was very difficult to get people to discuss the Common Market because of the domestic issues with which Scotland is faced at the present time. But, when I was successful in getting people to discuss the Common Market, I found that there was fear and apprehension about the future should Great Britain enter Europe. That fear is exemplified in the belief that nothing within the terms of the Treaty of Rome would be sufficient to solve the regional problem from which Scotland suffers. It is true that those who run industry, particularly in Grangemouth, are in favour of entry. I should be dishonest if I did not make that point. But the vast majority of my constituents express grave fear and concern that Scotland would be a periphery nation of Europe and that, indeed, we would become Europe's bedroom in that people would only live and sleep in Scotland and would have to go to Europe to obtain work. I sincerely believe that this issue takes precedence over the question of prices. There is, of course, grave fear and apprehension about the effect on prices should Britain enter Europe. The common agricultural policy, which basically alters the system that we employ for determining our food prices, can only increase prices beyond all recognition, and during the by-election which I contested housewives, without exception, expressed that fear and apprehension. There is also the grave question of the free movement of capital and labour. I have always been opposed to Britain's entry into Europe against the background of the Treaty of Rome. I am not anti-Europe, nor are the people in Scotland in general, or the people in my constituency in particular. Our horizons stretch much further than the geographical boundaries of our country. Indeed, we are proud that many great Scots have left our shores and travelled to the four corners of the globe and shared their wisdom and knowledge to make this world a better place in which to live. But, having said that, I must tell the House that there is fear and apprehension that we would become a periphery nation, that we would merely be Europe's bedroom. I think that if this House, on Thursday night, were to vote in favour of entry, as I concede seems likely, we would be making a grave error of judgment. If Britain said ""No"" now, Europe would have to rethink its future, and I am convinced that from that rethink would emerge policies which would be acceptable both to this House and to the country as a whole. It is vitally important that we take the nation with us when we make such a momentous decision as this, and the evidence before us is clearly that the people of this country are not with us on this issue. The knowledge that has   been gleaned by ordinary people from the pamphlets that have been published is limited. I do not know, and I should not want to venture a guess, whether that has been deliberate or otherwise, but I know that the people of this country require much more knowledge, and much more background material on which to base their judgment, before we can expect them to judge this issue rationally. My appeal is that we should sit down and give ourselves more time, and I am with the hon. and gallant Member for Wembley, North (Sir E. Bullus) on this. In the enabling legislation that is to come, and in the debates that will take place to enact it, the opportunity should not be lost to consult the people so that we have a clear indication of their will on this very important matter. I have already referred to the C.A.P. The V.A.T. is another measure which is giving cause for concern to the people whom I represent. Whichever way the by-election result in which I was involved is viewed, one thing that is clear is that there was a massive majority against entry into the Common Market. Of the three candidates, only one campaigned on the basis that Britain should enter the Common Market, and he gathered only 7,000 votes, while 30,000 votes were cast for the other two candidates, both of whom contested the by-election on an anti-Market platform. Despite the fact that the Common Market was not a major issue in the by-election, I believe that those figures give a clear indication of people's views, and I repeat that it would be a grave error of judgment on our part if we were to ignore public feeling on this great issue with which we are concerned. I have enjoyed listening to the debate since it began last Thursday. I am conscious of the fact that I am present in the House of Commons at a time when history is in the making. I am proud, indeed, to have the opportunity to play a part in that history-making, and I thank right hon. and hon. Members for the kind and courteous attention which they have paid to me this evening. I know that on future occasions, which I hope will be quite numerous, the reception may not be as quiet and as helpful as that I enjoyed this evening, but I sincerely thank all  right hon. and hon. Members for the kind way in which they have received me tonight.
