gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye at this moment, possibly before some of my hon. Friends who are waiting to join in the debate—a privilege that naturally I shall not enjoy in future. It will be a difficult task to follow my predecessor, the right hon. Edward Short. Ted was well known in the constituency over a period of 25 years and, indeed, before that he served well and long in local government. He was very well known for his acts of kindness and consideration to his constituents. Indeed, people still talk kindly—as I found while canvassing—of the many acts that Ted performed during his parliamentary career. Hon. Members will be aware of Ted Short's many achievements within the House over a long period. To list but a few, he was Government Chief Whip, Secretary of State for Education, Postmaster-General, Leader of the House of   Commons, and a Privy Councillor. That is, indeed, an eminent and enviable record to follow. It is one that I shall find very hard to live up to, but I can only try. I am honoured and proud to be able to serve his constituency—the constituency in which I was born, in which I grew up and in which, while canvassing, I have renewed many school acquaintances which I had all but forgotten. I have been reminded while sitting in the Chamber listening to the debates of the smallness of the constituency. However, what it lacks in physical size it more than makes up for in the quality of the people resident within it. They are industrious, they call a spade a spade and, like many other inner city areas, the constituency has many problems. Housing is but one of them. As an ex-chairman of housing and local government authorities, I am well aware of these housing problems. However, Newcastle City Council has an enviable record in slum clearance. When I compare the house in which I grew up with some of the houses built since, I feel that we have indeed achieved Utopia. Long may this continue. One matter which concerns me is the drift of population away from our inner city areas. To some extent this has been caused by the advent of new towns, which were a good idea. However, they have had an unfortunate side effect on our inner city areas. Unfortunately, mostly it is the young who go, and they are the lifeblood of a city. Without the young, there is no future. That is why I welcome the reference in the Gracious Speech to ""special attention"" being given to housing in the inner city areas. It is time to redress the balance. It is time to rebuild our inner cities and to stop this movement of population away from them. It is time that better facilities were provided in our inner city areas for both young and old people. An improvement in the environment is sadly overdue. We have to attract the young back into the inner city areas. We have to have well laid-out industrial estates on the peripheries of our cities with diverse industries. By offering housing and jobs we have some hope of attracting people  back to the inner city areas. Only these will stop the drift away from them. We must have an efficient transport system in Newcastle. That is why I feel that a Metro is vital. I hope that it will proceed. We need new shopping facilities such as the Eldon Square shopping facility in Newcastle. If they have not seen it already, I recommend hon. Members to do so. They will find a visit very well worth while. If we do not redress the balance, the future for our inner city areas in general and that of Newcastle in particular will be one of slow decay. Although the new towns allowed us to create the space in inner city areas for development, it is now time to redress the balance and to build up those areas. Any lack of effort in this direction would be fatal. I appreciate that it will take resources. However, I understand the reference in the Gracious Speech to ""special attention"" to mean just that. Another aspect of the Gracious Speech which concerns me is the passage dealing with devolution. If there is to be devolution, adequate safeguards for cities like Newcastle are vital. Without them the situation would be like the attitude of a person who had tried for a considerable time to win one of the minor prizes on a football pool only to discover the person living next door winning a very big one. In Newcastle we live next door to Scotland and, as a result, we appreciate some of the aspects of devolution which may not be so apparent to those living some distance away. Anyone living next door to a problem recognises it very early. That is why I shall be watching the devolution proposals very closely to see that those safeguards are forthcoming. Without them, not only Newcastle but the whole Tyneside area will feel a very cold draught. Obviously, it will be to the disadvantage of my constituents and to Tyneside as a whole. If those safeguards are not forthcoming, I shall find it very difficult to support the devolution proposals. Those are the matters that I shall be looking out for on behalf of my constituents.
