gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
History has shown that nothing so effectively unites the British people as a crisis. All Members who are awake to the situation in which the country now stands and who have noted the measures outlined in the Gracious Speech will wish Her Majesty's Government well in their efforts to do what has to be done. It is a time when contributions from all quarters of the House ought to be constructive and kept clean from the narrower kind of party political motive. That is what the nation wants of us at this time. It is a matter of pride and satisfaction to all hon. Members from Ulster that our part of the United Kingdom has been able to make a substantial contribution over recent years to Britain's trade and balance of payments. That is not always easy to quantify, but it is a matter for  comment that the latest figures given to us show that the average inhabitant of Northern Ireland has, in recent times been turning out goods or produce for export to a value of more than three times that which is produced for export by the average inhabitant of Great Britain. The Gracious Speech states that the Government will encourage the maximum economic production of food by the farming and fishing industries of the United Kingdom in the interests of the national economy. Agriculture, as most hon. Members will appreciate, is the largest and most important single industry in Ulster, in terms both of its contribution to the economy of the Province and also of the overall employment given. It is because the industry is vitally important to our region that it is necessary to examine and comment upon the conditions under which it operates in Northern Ireland at present. Before I go any further I should like to say how much we welcome the right hon. Gentleman, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, back in office. I had the happiest relations with him when he was in office previously. He came over to Northern Ireland, and we appreciated the work he did at that time. He mentioned Tom Williams in his address today. If he follows the example of Tom Williams, at one time a highly respected Minister of Agriculture, particularly in relation to the stability that he injected into agriculture, he will be making a substantial contribution to the welfare of the farmers of the United Kingdom. Other hon. Members have commented on this matter already, but if there is one thing that has been missed more than any other in agriculture in recent years it is stability. I sincerely hope that the right hon. Gentleman will devote a lot of his time to reintroducing stabilised prices in order that the industry may have the confidence it so badly needs. As hon. Members have commented, agricultural production is a long-term process and farmers need to have some assurance for the future. That can be obtained from stabilisation of the price mechanism. My colleagues and I come from a part of the United Kingdom in which the electorate reached a clear-cut decision. The attitude of the two major political parties is surprising to some of us, when   they have recently assured us that Northern Ireland will not be forced into the Republic of Ireland against the wishes of the majority. The Northern Ireland electorate have given a clear-cut indication of their desire to stay within the United Kingdom, and it is strange that responsible Ministers from both major political parties have been trying to set in motion types of machinery that will bring about the opposite possibility. I should be pleased if whoever concludes this debate for the Government would state clearly whether a change of policy has taken place. This is of great interest to the people of Northern Ireland. I fully appreciate that the response given by the electorate in Northern Ireland was not that which was hoped for by the Government who have gone out of office and, possibly, by the two major political parties in this honourable House. Nor, even, was it the one expected by many Members of this House. But that merely goes to show how much out of touch many Members were with the true position in Northern Ireland and the true feelings of the people there. I and my fellow Members representing the United Unionist parliamentary coalition are proud to be Members of this honourable House. We look forward to playing a constructive part in all aspects of its business, not only on matters affecting Northern Ireland but on matters affecting the United Kingdom as a whole I purposely emphasise this because I am conscious of the fact that back in 1965 the then Prime Minister, who, incidentally, is the present Prime Minister, posed the threat of limiting the voting rights of Ulster Members of Parliament. I am also conscious that his attitude was related to the fact that the majority of Ulster Members of Parliament at that time were Unionists and that they had the Conservative Whip at that time. Indeed, HANSARD reports that on 6th May 1965 the Prime Minister referred to Ulster Unionist Members of Parliament as hacks supporting the English Tory Party"".—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 6th May 1965; Vol. 711. c. 1562.] In his emotional state he apparently overlooked the existence of Scotland and Wales, also within the United Kingdom.  He also apparently overlooked the fact that, with a few minor exceptions, taxes in Northern Ireland were imposed by the United Kingdom Government and were at the same rate as in other parts of the United Kingdom; moreover, the United Kingdom Government and Parliament determined how the money collected in Northern Ireland should be disposed of. In such circumstances, every area of United Kingdom expenditure and policy was of legitimate interest to Ulster Members, just as it was to Members of Parliament from other regions within the United Kingdom That is even more true today, as the entire field of taxation in Northern Ireland is now a United Kingdom responsibility, under the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973. The United Kingdom Government and Parliament decide how much shall be available for spending in Northern Ireland, as in other regions of the United Kingdom. I want it to be clearly understood that my Ulster Unionist colleagues and I regard it as our right to participate in all Divisions and other business of this House, whether the matter in hand relates to the entire United Kingdom or only to a part of the United Kingdom. We also regard it as our right to vote on each issue according to our judgment of its merits. At this stage we do not intend to commit our support to any party, although we reserve the right to do so if circumstances should warrant such a decision. The right of the 12 Ulster Members to participate fully in all the business of this honourable House is not enough to provide a fair deal for Northern Ireland. We would need at least 17 Members of Parliament, as recommended by the Kilbrandon Committee. I would ask right hon. and hon. Members present to consider the following facts. First, as I have already stated, taxation in Northern Ireland is decided entirely by the United Kingdom Government and Parliament, on the same basis as for other regions, and is calculated by the United Kingdom Government. Secondly, the allocation of all United Kingdom funds, including those available for spending in Northern Ireland, as indeed in other regions, is determined by the United Kingdom Government and Parliament. Third, the Parliament at Westminster may legislate for Northern Ireland on any matter and   may even change Northern Ireland's constitution on a simple majority vote. I could extend this list to include many other relevant matters. However, I think that I have said enough in this House today to make it quite clear that justice demands that Northern Ireland should have the same level of representation at Westminster as do other parts of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland has been a part of the United Kingdom since the Act of Union of 1800—that is, for 174 years. We have always regarded this great Mother of Parliaments as the cradle of democracy, but I cannot think of any brand of democracy which would make it right for Northern Ireland to have only one Member of Parliament for every 90,000 voters when the average for Great Britain is one for every 60,000 voters, bearing in mind that all real power over Northern Ireland resides at Westminster. The present Northern Ireland Constitution Act which provides for all real power to lie at Westminster is in line with the desire, so often expressed since 1968, of the United Kingdom Government to be more involved in Northern Ireland affairs. But, with respect, it is a blot on the reputation of this honourable House that an Act meant to improve democracy within the Northern Ireland region should be passed without first ensuring a fair representation from Northern Ireland at Westminster and without providing for such representation in the future. Compared with United Kingdom citizens living in Great Britain, Northern Ireland people are being treated as second-class citizens. I must emphasise that even this great Mother of Parliaments is powerless to make us accept that position. Nor can we accept other aspects of the 1973 Constitution Act, such as the appointment of members of the Executive by the Secretary of State, enforced power sharing, and sole control of security by the United Kingdom Government. Even a sizeable majority at Westminster does not, of itself, make legislation acceptable to those most concerned. This proved true in the case of the Industrial Relations Act and it  is even more true in the case of the Northern Ireland Constitution Act. We in Ulster are dissatisfied with the way in which security has been and is being handled. I do not criticise either the police force or the Army; both have done a magnificent job within the limits of their numbers and their instructions from their political masters. It is an open secret in Northern Ireland that the members of the security forces feel as frustrated as do the general public. They simply have not been allowed to take the necessary action, a fact which was clearly stated recently by Lord Richard Cecil. He was an Army officer who, after serving three periods of duty in Northern Ireland, resigned his commission in protest. The House is well aware that, in round figures, 1,000 people have been killed in Northern Ireland in recent times by bullets and bombs and in other violent ways. More than 98 per cent. of those deaths occurred after the British Government undertook overall responsibility for our security. More than 72 per cent. of those deaths have occurred in a period of less than two years since the British Government suppressed the Parliament of Northern Ireland, set aside our democratic institutions and took over entire responsibility for the government of the province. The statistics of the numbers of soldiers and police wounded and injured have been kept since 1968; figures for civilians have been kept only since 1971. In round figures, there have been 12,000 cases of wounds and injuries, some of very serious proportions. Why should life be cheaper across the Irish Sea? In Northern Ireland's small population of only 1½ million persons, these events may seem to involve a relatively small number of people. Nevertheless, they have made a great impact on the population. Let us imagine how it would be if events occurred here in Great Britain of a similar kind and on a proportionate scale. In Britain we have a population 36 times greater than that of Northern Ireland. What effect would it have had on the British economy if there were launched upon the country a vicious terrorist campaign which resulted in 36,000 dead and nearly half a million injured? These are stern facts. A great number of our population today are living in a state of high nervous tension. This nation would not put up with it for one minute. Killings, maimings, injuries are all still going on—and that is only part of it. There has been immense damage done by bombings and burnings of business and industrial premises and shooting at farmers working in their fields in Northern Ireland by terrorists from across the border, to say nothing of the damage that has been done to homes and private houses. The city of Londonderry is one small example. It has a population of not much more than 50,000. Many Members have cities of that size in their constituencies. One half of all the business premises in Londonderry have been completely destroyed. The economic welfare of that city was of particular concern to the former Northern Ireland Government, and through the exertions of that Government there were established in its vicinity a number of large new industries providing many new jobs. These included the largest single complex of synthetic fibre industries in Europe. Most of these bigger industries still survive, but some have succumbed. I and my colleagues condemn violence from any source. But we also say that the failure to control the IRA violence within a reasonable time led inevitably to what is called Protestant counter-violence—some, I would claim, in self-defence, some in retaliation. We also believe that once the United Kingdom Government demonstrate the will to crush the IRA, the Protestant groups will quickly disappear. That brings me to my next point. I should like hon. Members to put themselves in the position of the Northern Ireland majority and think, objectively, how they would feel in similar circumstances. I have no doubt that they would feel as we do, a burning sense of indignation at the unfair treatment we have received and the failure to consider our point of view. The lying propaganda campaign against us was apparently swallowed hook, line and sinker in this honourable House. There was no objective look at our achievements which I firmly believe dwarfed our failures. There were other ways in which wiser United Kingdom Government policy might have  helped to prevent the violence in Northern Ireland, such as more help before 1968 in the creation of jobs and the provision of houses. Time does not permit me to elaborate further. I have said enough to indicate that the United Kingdom Government bore a share of blame or responsibility for the troubles in Northern Ireland. Yet that Government have never acknowledged this, and instead have chosen to adopt a self-righteous posture and put all the blame on the then Northern Ireland Government. The comment that we had in recent times from a leading politician was, Youv'e got yourselves into this mess, now get yourselves out of it. That hardly calls for comment from me. Again, the non-co-operative attitude of a large proportion of the minority community over the past 50 years was a contributory factor to the troubles, as was the attitude of the Government of the Republic in continuing to claim jurisdiction over Northern Ireland, and failing to prevent the IRA from organising, training and attacking that part of the United Kingdom in which we live. I must also make it plain that the vast majority of the Unionist people of Northern Ireland will never accept a Council of Ireland with executive powers and a parliamentary wing. That was shown quite clearly in the recent General Election. To most people from Northern Ireland it is too clearly the embryo all-Ireland Government. Members of the Social Democratic and Labour Party have publicly stated that that is how they also see it. I am fully in favour of co-operating closely with the Republic of Ireland in economic matters, as previous Northern Ireland Governments have done. But that requires only meetings between Ministers and officials and does not call for the charade of a Council of Ireland with its own Parliament and executive powers. Finally, I should like to deal with the charge frequently made by certain self-righteous people that because we are opposed to the United Kingdom Government's plans for Northern Ireland we are in some strange way disloyal. How fatuous that is! Those same people have not made such a charge against the millions of trade unionists who have so strongly   opposed the Industrial Relations Act and now appear to be in sight of its abolition. Our loyalty in Ulster is to the British Crown, and not to a particular Government or Minister. We see Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom, with its people having the same rights and privileges as any other group of people in any other part of the United Kingdom. We are not some sort of colony owing some sort of allegiance to England or to Great Britain. The Army in Northern Ireland is as much our army as that of Yorkshire, London or, for that matter, Great Britain. We are sick, sore and tired of listening to people who should know better, talking about bringing the British Army home from Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland is as much home for the British Army as anywhere else in the United Kingdom. We have always had an army presence in Northern Ireland. Ulster's contribution to the British Army in leadership has been substantial. The names of Alanbrooke, Alexander, Montgomery and Templer, to mention but a few, are honoured in the history of the British Army. We shall fight to the limit, if necessary, to maintain our legitimate rights as part of the United Kingdom, but we shall co-operate with any United Kingdom Government who accept and recognise those rights. The courtesy of the House has been extended to me, and I appreciate it very much. I also appreciate that my speech has not dealt entirely with the subject under discussion and I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for the licence that I have been given. Within the few days that I have been here as a new Member of Parliament representing Northern Ireland, I have had the privilege of discussion with the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries on agricultural matters affecting Northern Ireland. He has been most kind and courteous. In the short time that he has been in office he has, on three occasions, discussed with me beef cattle prices, the poultry industry and, of course, the world potato problem—a problem that also exists in Northern Ireland. I value the help that he has promised and his promise that he will look into those issues as a matter of urgency. In closing, I should be failing in my duty if I did not say that, since coming to this honourable House for the first time, my colleagues and I have received the utmost kindness and courtesy from Mr. Speaker, from his jovial Deputy—your colleague, Sir—from the Leader of the House, from various Ministers on the Front Bench and from a great many hon. Members. We greatly appreciate it, and I assure you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that we intend to take a responsible and constructive part during our term in the House.
