gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me to speak in this important debate. The debate affects all of my constituents who will be interested to learn the views of Conservative Members who have said that rich people tend not to live in large houses and poor people tend not to live in small houses. That means that under the present system they believe that things are inequitable. I want to pay tribute to Ray Ellis, the former Member for Derbyshire, North-East. Ray would have been interested to be involved in this debate. He was a former councillor in south Yorkshire, and that county council has since been abolished. He served in this House for eight years and during that period he faced strong Government  opposition. When I took over from Ray Ellis, I had hoped to be in an easier position, but I face the same level of strength on the Government Benches. The Government must realise that the election result has not given them a mandate to ride roughshod over people's feelings. Strong feelings were expressed across both sides of the political divide during the election campaign and on no point were feelings running stronger than on the poll tax. Ray Ellis was the fifth miner to represent Derbyshire, North-East, an area which has suffered boundary changes. The first miner was a Lib-Lab, elected in 1907, who joined the Labour party in 1910. For 68 years of the intervening 80 years the constituency was served by five mining Members from Derbyshire. Among them was Tom Swain, who was well known in the House and was a fighter on behalf of his constituents in more ways than one. I have broken that tradition in that I am not a miner, but I take over the commitment to fight on behalf of mining in my constituency. Some mining is still left in north-east Derbyshire. There are three pits, one of which is at High Moor, where Ray Ellis was for a number of years an extremely effective union branch secretary with a sound reputation for negotiating on behalf of his members. The other two pits are at Renishaw Park and Ireland. Ireland is on the boundary of north-east Derbyshire and Chesterfield and is currently the subject of closure plans by the NCB. The NCB has also produced a hit-list of further pits in the area, such as Markham, Bolsover, and Warsop. Renishaw Park also appears on that list. Such closures would seriously affect the future employment prospects of people in my constituency. In the three constituencies of Bolsover, Derbyshire. North-East and Chesterfield, mining is still the leading employer, partly because of the growth in unemployment within the area. Even so, the mining industry has been contracting, although jobs have been contracting at a faster rate. It can therefore be seen that mining still has a prominence in the constituency, and it is my intention to argue on its behalf and for the maintenance of the pits in those areas, particularly as they all have workable coal reserves. I shall also defend the mining industry because of my own background. My father, relatives and my wife's father were miners. During the past 21 years I have taught both Derbyshire and Yorkshire miners, although they have probably taught me much more. In fact, three Members of this House attended classes that I have taught, and they, too, are now teaching me much more than I ever taught them. I probably learnt more about miners' interests during the academic year 1984–85. During that time I taught two classes of Yorkshire miners, who attended rigorously despite the fact that it was the most terrifying period that they had ever gone through. Indeed, one of those miners was later killed when he returned to his pit. My election to this House indicates that many changes are taking place in north-east Derbyshire. It is no longer an area pockmarked with pits, as it was at one time. It now contains a commuter element which centres on Sheffield and Chesterfield, of which I was a part as a teacher. Derbyshire, North-East is a socially and politically divided constituency, although not on traditional north-south lines. There is a classic east-west divide, with a strong Labour feeling in the east and a strong Conservative   feeling in the west. Both views should be taken account of by the Government, because to some extent it is a replica of what we now find generally throughout the country. A wise Government do not ride roughshod over differing attitudes and opinions, but seek to reconcile such conflicting interests and attitudes. The Government's poll tax is a striking example of the problem that now exists, because in north-east Derbyshire the east-enders of the constituency will be expected to subsidise the west-enders, and that will cause uproar. The Government are seemingly intent on creating scenarios that repeat those that we have seen in the past in Derbyshire, North-East. The eastern part of my constituency includes Clay Cross; in the western part are commuter areas such as Dronfield and Wingerworth. Clay Cross fought the Housing Finance Act 1972 for reasons similar to those that people have put forward against the poll tax. The Housing Finance Act provided for people's rents to be increased to pay for subsidies for their neighbours, and to reduce the rate burden and generally to transfer funds to the Exchequer. The poorer people were expected to subsidise the richer. But that was mild in comparison to measures instigated by the Government since and in the poll tax that is now on the cards, including reduction in rate support grant, controls being operated centrally, and the destruction of the ability and right of people to provide and act for themselves and to control things democratically. Clay Cross and the other areas in Derbyshire, North-East are unlikely to be willing to sit back gently and allow that to occur. Financial problems in the community affect such areas as Dronfield, which, like many western areas, also has its working-class wards. In one of those wards there is a problem that requires Government finance and assistance. There is a fire raging underground near an industrial estate at Callywhite lane in Dronfield. We are seeking a delegation from the district council, the town council, firms, trade unionists and others to seek Government assistance. According to a magistrate's decision last week, the council is expected to find £300,000 to put out the fire. In terms of grant penalties, that would be £342,000—the product of a 4p rate, in areas that can ill afford it. Clearly, there is a case here for help from central Government. The Department of the Environment has at last agreed to meet the delegation, but only after I put before the House early-day motion No. 46, signed by several other hon. Members; after an oral and a written question were put forward; and after I had tried to raise the matter on the Adjournment. Now, because we are approaching the summer recess—which I voted against—that delegation may not be met until September. That is not adequate for my constituents. Serious dangers need to be dealt with, and North-East Derbyshire district council is beginning to require assistance, particularly financial assistance. There is an embankment of 40 to 45 ft. with a stream at the bottom. At the top of the embankment, on car park land behind firms, the temperature is 40 deg C. on the ground. At the top of the embankment the soil temperature is 60 deg. At the bottom of the embankment it is 87 degrees. Three feet below the bottom of the embankment the temperature is 630 deg C. in various hot spots. The fire cannot be put out with water; water oxidises the soil. The fire is gathering momentum; because it is growing in area it is threatening other firms and gas  supplies in the area. At stake in the immediate future are 300 jobs. If the district council puts up the rates and requires firms under the Public Health Act 1936 to provide the money, a number of those firms will go bankrupt. They will not be assisted by the poll tax, nor by the provision that is made for businesses; they will go by the board, and 300 jobs will have gone in an area of high unemployment. Even worse than that is the fact that the stream at the bottom of the embankment is within 100 yd of a BMX track. Children are not prevented from going to the stream; all that is provided is a warning notice. That must be acted on. I return to Clay Cross. That struggle showed that to engage in hard battles against Government measures is not unpopular. In a recent by-election, a formerly debarred Clay Cross councillor was elected to the North-East Derbyshire district council with 85 per cent. of the votes. The Government believe that such a high vote is impossible, but that is the percentage that has to be gained to establish a closed shop. The Clay Cross councillors did not intend to defy the law. They believed that under the Housing Finance Act 1972 a commissioner could be sent in to take over housing. It was only after they had been through the courts that it was decided that under the Local Government Act 1933 a surcharge should be levied on the councillors. Many of my constituents, particularly those in the mining community, are aware of the fact that, although the action that was taken then appeared to be quite clear and open, the law can apply differing interpretations. Many sacked miners in north-east Derbyshire, including many of those who helped me in my election campaign, believe that to be so. The Government should not unduly burden people. Instead, they should seek to reconcile conflicting interests. I shall quote from a letter that has been written to me by somebody who lives in north-east Derbyshire. It is not a put-up job. The letter comes from a 10-year-old girl in Unstone Green, which is a deprived area. In her letter Claire Staines writes: Dear Mr. Barnes, I am just writing to say how glad I am that you won your election. Can you ask Mrs. Thatcher to let us have more books and equipment for our school, and when is she going to find a job for my Dad? What is being done through local government financial legislation to ensure that books are placed in Claire Staines' school and to ensure that her father is given the opportunity, because the community is prosperous, to work again? I do not think that anything is being done.
