gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I find myself in rather a funny situation. Govan is still essentially Govan, though it has extended slightly to the east and slightly to the west, so it is not really a new constituency. But that is not the peculiar part about it. In the past few months it has had two representatives—the late John Rankin, who represented Govan very successfully and assiduously for almost 30 years, followed by a Mrs. MacDonald, who represented it for roughly 30 days. To whom do I pay compliments? I think that I should pay my compliments to John Rankin. I hope that I shall not serve as long as John Rankin; I also hope that I shall serve longer than Mrs. MacDonald. Govan is well known. Despite some people's claims, I think that it is the best-known constituency in Glasgow. We build the best ships—that is known the world over. The best ships in the world are built on the Clyde, in Govan. Need I extol the virtues of Govan? The people of Govan are proud to belong to Govan. At one time the boundaries of Govan school board stretched to the other side of the River Clyde, further than any other part of Glasgow. The school board had a proud record in education. Now today, unfortunately, Govan has no proud record. We have cranes lying empty, shipping berths lying empty, and dereliction among the houses. People want to stay in Govan, but unfortunately we have not the houses for them. Any hon. Member who has visited Govan, as some did during the by-election, will have seen the desolation there, the buildings in disrepair. We have plans to rebuild Govan, but unfortunately the last Secretary of State sat on them for years. The people we tried to rehouse did not want to leave their slums, but some of them have done so. We have built some lovely new houses in Govan—we  have 10 multi-storey buildings—but they have not the same feel and tradition that Govan itself used to have. I hope that with the new Government we shall go ahead and rebuild Govan with the old tradition, not merely for people living there and not only shopping centres, but for work, for we need work in Govan. During this election, I stood for a certain programme. Basically, the first point was that if the Labour Party was returned, the miners' strike would end, and it ended. That was victory No. 1. I said that if the Labour Party returned to office we would freeze rents. Rents have been frozen—victory No. 2. I said that if the Labour Party was returned, we should go back to full-time working—victory No. 3. I also said I committed my party to putting up pensions—and by the way I claim that my constituency party in Govan, along with the Transport and General Workers Union, was successful in pushing the £16 pension through the Labour Party conference, and I am pleased to say that we have achieved a victory and we are to put that decision into operation. Govan therefore has claims to fame for reasons other than building ships. The next point was prices. In the 1970 election, the then leader of the Tory Party—I do not know whether he still is—was proclaiming, ""Look to your purses, look to your shopping basket"". He said that if a Labour Government were returned the price of a loaf would be three shillings—15p. And, lo and behold! He achieved that, and the people of Govan know it. That is one of the reasons why the General Election reversed the by-election trend. Prices are very important. As the population of Govan has diminished, the older people have been left and they go about looking for the cheapest food. At one time in Govan as a push-by an old person would buy a quarter of corn dobay—corned beef. That was a push-by meal; today, after three-and-a-half years of Conservative rule, it is a luxury. I hope that the new Minister in charge of prices will look carefully at the amount of money spent on advertising. If one turns on the television one sees inflation—not just a bit of inflation but a soaring balloon advertising bread, for instance. How much money is spent on advertising bread? Is it necessary to advertise   bread? As far as I know, the first bread advertisement was in the Bible. The Jews who made unleavened bread advertised free of charge. Why advertise something that people must have? I hope that the new Minister will carefully examine the books of all companies to see how much is being spent on advertising. This applies not just to bread. Are the people of this country so dirty that they must constantly be told to wash? Soap powders and soap are advertised all the time. Are we so dirty? We must use soap, whether we like it or not, so why advertise it? I hope that the Minister will examine the prices of these commodities carefully, and look at the cartels and trusts which have raised prices. It is the same with a gallon of petrol. They advertise petrol, and the price is still the same. Where is the free competition? It is the same with the price of tyres. There is no free competition. There is collusion among big businesses, no matter where one lives. I trust that the new Minister will examine the whole matter carefully so that my people in Govan will get a fair deal.
