gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I trust that the House will bear with me and grant me the customary indulgence in what is my very difficult task of addressing the House for the  first time. The other great difficulty under which I labour is that I sit here in place of one who throughout many years won the highest esteem and regard of hon. Members in all parts of the House. I refer to Mr. Tom Hubbard, who was a popular Member of the House. I should like to pay my tribute to the work which he did in the House on behalf of the Kirkcaldy Burghs constituency. Unlike Mr. Hubbard, I am not a miner, but I was reared in a mining family and I well remember the hardships and indignities of the years of rationalisation—not nationalisation—and depression in the 1920's and early 1930's. I regret that no reference is made in the Gracious Speech to the difficulties in the coal industry today. Arising from the policy of concentration adopted by the National Coal Board at one of the largest pits in my constituency, the Wellesley colliery, 45 men are being made redundant immediately, with the threat of another 230 by May of next year. Since this colliery is by no means the most uneconomic pit in the area, a feeling of fear and insecurity has spread among the mining population in the area, to such an extent that the wastage in the past few weeks has averaged about nine per week, consisting, unfortunately, mostly of the younger men, who are joining the Armed Forces. While the Board's policy may be failing in one respect, it appears that it has become a most successful recruiting officer for Her Majesty's Forces. In addition to this drift of young miners away from the industry, only 25 school leavers have been recruited this year into the industry, compared with approximately 200 in 1957. If this position is allowed to persist, the industry will eventtually become over-weighted with older personnel. These unfortunate circumstances are due, in my opinion, to the lack of a national fuel policy and the lack of sufficient funds being allocated by the Government for research into the numerous potential by-products of coal. In shipbuilding a serious position prevails in Kirkcaldy and Burntisland, where the labour force in the local shipyards has been reduced from 1,800 men in 1957 to about 700 at the present time, along with a substantial reduction in overtime, with all the consequences of reduced purchasing power in the community. I turn to the question or youth employment. A serious trend is becoming evident by the latest figures of the Youth Employment Service. In the year ending July, 1958, £1,250 of unemployment benefit was paid in my constituency to unemployed persons below the age of 17, compared with £3,526 in the year ending July, 1959. That is an increase of over 100 per cent. in unemployment benefit in a period when, we are told, we have ""never had it so good"". In the light of all these factors, it is surely crystal-clear that there is a strong case for the Government to take action immediately to provide alternative light industries in the constituency. As a former vice-chairman of Fife County Education Committee, I should like to make a brief reference to education. The major bogy of education in Scotland at present is, in my opinion, not so much the system of promotion from primary to secondary education as the serious shortage of qualified teachers, particularly in the secondary schools. The Gracious Speech makes no reference whatever to attracting more graduates into the profession. It is well-known that industry offers attractive salaries and perquisites to those leaving the universities, while those graduates who take up the teaching profession have to undertake a further year in a training college, with an inadequate bursary from the education authority, and then, to add to the indignity, they have to wait a further eighteen to twenty years before qualifying for their maximum salary. There would be a considerable number of major changes in the Government if the same criterion of experience were required before one became a Minister. In Fife, where we are short of some 200 teachers, which is approximately 10 per cent. of the teaching force, 146 of the vacancies are in secondary schools. There are also some 80 over-sized classes. This is not a problem which has just emerged but one well-known to the Government for several years. Yet, despite the representations made by Fife County Education Committee and many other authorities, no alteration whatever has been made in the scales to reduce the qualifying period for receiving the maximum salary. This is a condition which would not be tolerated  in any other industry or profession. Unless the Government take some drastic and immediate action we shall soon reach the calamitous position where the pool of highly educated manpower, so essential to the economic survival of this country, will be irretrievably submerged. In Kirkcaldy Burghs we have possibly the most active branches of the Old-Age Pensioners' Association in the country. Despite what hon. Members opposite may say, I can assure the Government that the pensioners, at least in my constitutency, are far from satisfied with their treatment during the past eight years. I therefore hope that the promise in the Gracious Speech to attend to the needs of the old people will be implemented by an immediate and substantial increase in old-age pensions. I have taken this opportunity to focus attention on some of the problems affecting my constituency and other parts of the country. If the Government can deal effectively with them, then at least some of Scotland's problems will be solved.
