gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me so early in my membership of the House. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Ray Gunter, who earned such a fine reputation here. I should like to make a brief reference to my constituency, the historic Borough of Southwark. Perhaps it should be more than a borough. A borough with two cathedrals should be accorded the status and dignity of a city. I was prompted to enter the debate by the reference of the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Raison) to Southwark and what he called the mass housing, and the  suggestion that the Bill, which would encourage houses for sale, could in some way provide a solution to the housing problems of Southwark. The particular development to which the hon. Member was referring, the Aylesbury development, is a development at 130 to the acre. But the problems in areas such as Southwark are that we are at present engaged in clearing outworn tenement blocks which have been in private ownership for years and are a disgrace for people to live in. In one example, cleared within the last 12 months, people were living at a density of 600 to the acre. To suggest that a housing finance Bill which will encourage the provision of houses for sale will be any solution to the problems of the Southwarks and the Inner London area is a fantasy. In my maiden speech I shall endeavour to be as uncontroversial as I can, but on such a subject as the Housing Finance Bill it will be rather difficult for me to do that. The suggestion that the encouragement to produce houses for sale will provide a solution to future housing needs has already been disproved. The tremendous escalation in housing prices over the past six months has been caused largely by the fact that many council tenants, seeing nothing but rent increases staring them in the face for years ahead, are entering the market for houses for sale, a market with already more would-be purchasers than sellers. All that we shall succeed in doing as a result of the Bill is to escalate the price of housing. One can well understand the reason for this: the council tenant realising that if he becomes an owner occupier he will, every three years, or every year, or, at the present rate, every six months, have a tremendous capital appreciation, will see nothing in the future as a tenant but a rent appreciation. We are dividing our housing, as we are so many other things, into two classes. The hon. Member for Epping (Mr. Tebbit) spoke of the advantage the rent rebate scheme will have for the less well off tenant, but my hon. Friend the Member for Shoreditch and Finsbury (Mr. Ronald Brown) has already made the point that people who will benefit are those who merely transfer from social security. We have some evidence of how fair rent and rent rebates work, because we know what has happened in the three years during which the Greater   London Council has worked a rent rebate scheme. It is interesting to note that in order to publicise the much vaunted fair rent and rent rebate scheme, a friend of the hon. Member for Epping asked the Greater London Council how many people in Southwark would benefit as a result of the generous rent rebate scheme which had been introduced together with fair rents. The figure given was 6,200. I thought that such a very interesting figure that it should be investigated further, so I asked how many of those 6,200 tenants in Southwark would not have needed rent rebate at all if the rents had not been put up under the fair rents scheme. The figure I was given was 3,000, so half of them would not have needed the rebate if the rents had not first been put up. I also asked what was the net amount, more or less, that they would have received after the rent had gone up and they had received a rebate. I was told:  It appears that the aggregate rent taken from the 6,200 likely to get rebates in October is roughly the same as the aggregate rents they are now paying. So having done all that they finished up where they started from. I thought that was interesting, so I waited another 18 months, because the figures I had been given were only estimated figures, and then I asked how many of the lucky 6,200 tenants in Southwark actually received a rent rebate. The answer was that there were 1,600 …but the earlier estimate was based on the assumption that the rents would be the fair rent level of 1967 and merely made reference to the fact that the previous Government intervened to stop them accelerating as fast as they otherwise would have done. It is a very interesting exercise in rent rebates, and the House will be very concerned in 18 months' time to see in practice what is the effect of rent rebates and how many people actually benefit. I am certain that the whole object of this exercise is to get more rent from council tenants, and to place them in an entirely different category from others in the housing market. The hon. Member for Epping asked whether a Labour Government would repeal this Measure. I am quite certain that the electors of Southwark who sent  me here last Thursday with such a magnificent majority, with the largest ever percentage poll in Southwark, will expect, as I do, a Labour Government to repeal it.
