gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I am aware of the indulgence which right hon. and hon. Members usually show to those of us who have recently arrived here and who are, therefore, in need of such indulgence on the occasion of a maiden speech. I may say that I feel even more in need of that indulgence after this afternoon's excitement. I have received the usual advice from more experienced hon. Members as to what one ought to say or ought not to say in a maiden speech. I shall endeavour to conform to the normal practice of the House, and I hope that the indulgence which has already been extended to other  may be extended to me. Perhaps I  to make  thing clear from the start. The  that I have chosen to speak on such an important Measure as the Finance Bill does not mean that I am a financial wizard, but it seems to me to be as good an opportunity as any to refer to industry in my constituency and to a Clause in the Bill which affects that industry. I have the privilege of representing the constituency of Wellingborough, which is situated in the very pleasant county of Northamptonshire. The urban district of Wellingborough is but part of the constituency, which also has within its boundaries the urban districts of Rush-den, Irthlingborough and Raunds, and the borough of Higham Ferrers which, with a population of under 4,000 is surely one of the smallest boroughs in the country. It is, however, of great historical interest and received its charter over 700 years ago, in 1251. There are also many villages which comprise the rural district of Wellingborough included in the boundaries of my constituency, and I count myself very fortunate indeed to represent such an area. The people of my constituency are kind, generous and hardworking, and at the risk of being controversial, I must say that I have found a friendliness which, at one time, I did not expect to find outside my native Lancashire. One cannot speak of the Wellingborough constituency without referring to the close attention that its Members of Parliament have shown to its problems over the years. I hope that I shall be forgiven by those who served the constituency so well, but who are unknown to me personally, if I make reference only to my two immediate predecessors. Mr. George Lindgren, as he then was, who was the Member from 1945 to 1959, is a personal friend of mine. He is remembered with affection in the constituency, and it is with great satisfaction that I and my constituents see that he is carrying on his work in another place, not now just as a Member, but as Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport, an appointment which I welcome because both he and I were railway clerks and I recognise his great knowledge in the field of transport and wish him well in the problems that he has to face. Mr. Michael Hamilton was Member for Wellingborough from 1959 until the last election. He was a Whip in the Conservative Government, but he must have done his job in an efficient manner because he was well liked by all who knew him. I remind the House that I am here with a majority of only 47, so hon. Members will appreciate that Mr. Hamilton and I fought hard during the election campaign. But Mr. Hamilton was a fair opponent   and, despite our political differences of opinion, I have a great regard for him. I want to refer to a major industry in the constituency, but perhaps I may be permitted to refer, first, to the fact that arrangements have been made, in conjunction with the L.C.C., for Wellingborough to become an overspill area for London. Already, some firms have taken up sites and homes have been or are being built for those who want to move with their present employers. The other local authorities in my constituency are also anxious to get new industries and I hope that many more inquiries will be made of the local authorities for sites for development. If I can encourage others who want to move to go to this delightful part of the country, I think I can best do so by saying that I know that they will find the friendliness and helpfulness of the people of Northamptonshire extended to them as they have been to me. Northamptonshire is well known for its boots and shoes and a great number of my constituents work in the many boot and shoe factories in the area. They are contributing in no small way to the economy, not only in the home market but in export markets as well. I must say, however, that those who work in this great industry are concerned at the level of Purchase Tax which is applied to their products and they are hoping that the tax can be removed altogether or at least reduced at an early date. Much concern is also being shown about the 15 per cent. import surcharge on the finished or dressed leathers used in the industry and to which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred today. One quarter of all the supplies of dressed leathers is imported and in relation to certain international agreements, such as the Stockholm Convention, dressed leathers are accepted as a raw material in respect of the footwear industry, although they do not appear on the list of basic raw materials. It is impossible to replace the imported dressed leathers supplies from domestic sources, so, in any case, imports will have to continue. My information is that 70 per cent. of this leather comes from sterling area countries and is  used in the lower ranges of footwear, which will, therefore, bear the brunt of any price increases which may occur. The industry is grateful to my right hon. Friend for the revision of the exemptions which he recently announced and which go a long way towards meeting its case for special consideration. I hope that he will have another look at the position regarding dressed leathers to see whether further exemptions can be made. Having said that, I support the Government in the steps they are taking to improve the balance of payments position and my only criticism, if criticism it be, is that the surcharge falls hard on the major industry in my constitutency. It is obviously important, therefore, that I should make this plea on behalf of my constituents who are working hard to keep the country literally on its feet. I am grateful for the patience that right hon. and hon. Members have shown in listening to me and for the indulgence which has been extended to me.
