gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, ""That the Bill be now read a Second time."" I apprehend that in the course of this Session hon. Members will have to consider a great many Bills; a number of them will be long, some of them may be complicated, and one or two conceivably may give rise to some small degree of controversy on the part of one or two hon. Members opposite who have not yet fully appreciated their beneficent purpose. I am the more fortunate in being able to move the Second Reading of this little Bill which is at once very short, very simple and, I hope, entirely non-controversial. Hon. Members will realise that the Bill is the result of the Report of the Select Committee which was appointed at the beginning of the Session to inquire into the validity of the Elections for the Coat-bridge Division of Lanark and the Spring-burn Division of Glasgow. The circumstances were these. Under an Act of Parliament which operates only in Scotland, the Rent of Furnished Houses Control (Scotland) Act, 1943, there is provision for the establishment of tribunals of lay persons to assist the Secretary of State for Scotland in the administration of that Act and, under the Statute, there is a power in the Secretary of State to pay to the persons he appoints to these tribunals such sum by way of remuneration and expenses as, with the consent of the Treasury, he may think fit. The then Secretary of State decided to take advantage of the considerable public experience and local knowledge of Mrs. Jean Mann and Mr. John Forman in this capacity and he appointed each of them to be members of tribunals constituted under the Act. Each of them appears to have been paid on the occasions on which they sat as members of these tribunals—occasions which seem to have been very infrequent—the perhaps not extravagant sum of 31s. 6d. in respect of each day, together with some quite trivial amount for actual travelling expenses. The Select Committee inquiring into the matter came to the conclusion—and, if I may say so, there can be little doubt that their conclusion was correct—that the holding of these appointments brought Mrs. Mann and Mr. Forman within the scope of the Succession to the Crown Act of 1707, which, as hon. Members know, provided that the holding of certain offices of profit created after that time should be a disqualification from election or from sitting in the House and should give rise to a substantial penalty on the part of persons who, thus disqualified, did in fact attend and vote. The Select Committee, however, were satisfied that both in the case of Mrs. Mann—who was elected as the Member for the Coatbridge Division of Lanark—and in the case of Mr. Forman—who was elected as the Member for the Springburn Division of Glasgow—they had acted completely inadvertently and in good faith, and they recommended that legislation should be introduced validating the two Elections and relieving Mrs. Mann and Mr. Forman from the penalty they had otherwise incurred. That eminently sensible recommendation we accept, and I think it is only necessary for me to say this: although there are precedents for relieving hon. Members who have incurred penalties under the Succession to the Crown Act of those penalties, there seems to be no case in which an actual Election has been validated. But there are cases in which the disqualification incurred by the acceptance of an office of profit in the course of an existing membership has been set aside by Parliamentary action of this kind. There appears to be no sort of distinction, in principle, between that kind of case and this case. It is, of course, if the greatest importance that nothing should be done to suggest that Parliament will normally intervene in order to validate an irregular Election, but the circumstances here are quite exceptional. There is the finding of the Select Committee that the disqualification was incurred completely inadvertently. There is the fact that the time has now long passed for the presentation of an Election Petition, and that although the matter was attended by some publicity at the time no elector in Coatbridge or Springburn has thought it necessary to challenge the validity of the Election, or seek for the penalties that arise. In these circum-  stances, the House will probably feel that there is no justification for imposing either on the electors of those two divisions, or upon Mrs. Mann or Mr. Forman, the burden of a second Election which, one might assume, would be likely to lead to exactly the same result as the first one. I ask the House to say that we ought not to deprive ourselves any longer of the counsel or assistance of this lady or this gentleman. There is another matter, to which think it would be right for me to refer. The Select Committee, in their report, drew attention to the Report of another Select Committee made so long ago as 1941 which had inquired into the whole position in regard to the holding of offices of profit under the Crown, and which had recommended the introduction of legislation simplifying and clarifying the position. I, personally, appreciate very keenly the importance of the recommendations made by that Committee, because I myself was very nearly enmeshed in the trap which arises under this somewhat ancient Statute. I recently held an appointment as Chairman of the Catering Wages Commission, and under the Statute under which that appointment was made, there is power to pay a salary to the Chairman. As it happens, I was not paid a penny but two days before the Election my attention was drawn to the fact that the mere holding of this office might constitute the holding of an office of profit under the Crown. By the grace of the legal adviser of one of the Departments, I was able to effect a hasty, if undignified, retirement from that office just before I presented myself to the electorate in my constituency. Hon. Members will realise therefore that I speak with sincerity when I say that we shall give the most sympathetic consideration to the recommendation of the Select Committee and to the report of the previous Committee in order that we may see whether later, when Parliamentary time permits, we can introduce legislation to carry out those recommendations.
