gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a privilege to make my maiden speech in this debate. It is a particular pleasure for me to speak after the right hon. Member for Battersea, North (Mr. Jay) and my hon. Friend the Member for Scarborough (Mr. Shaw), the views of both of whom I respect very much indeed. It was in the Young Conservatives in Scarborough that I first cut my political teeth. I have the honour and privilege to represent in this House the electors of Basildon. It is a large constituency—the second largest in England and Wales—with over 103,000 voters. It is a very varied constituency. It has a new town, Basildon, with its associated residential areas of Laindon to the west and Pitsea to the east, and two more traditional towns well known in this House, Billericay and Wick ford, to the north. There are several charming villages and farms in between which must not be forgotten. The election result in Basildon on 3 May was notable. It was one of the best in the country for the Conservative Party, with a swing of a little over 11 per cent. My grateful thanks are due to a hard-working agent, Mrs. Peggy Marshall, and a happy and enthusiastic band of Conservative Party workers. Many former Labour supporters voted Tory for the first time. They did so for numerous reasons. Of course, many   wished to buy their own corporation or council homes. Many are already doing so, thanks to a Conservative Administration. Many wanted improvements in the commuter service into London, on both the Liverpool Street line and the Fen-church Street line. Many skilled workers were dismayed at the depressing of their differentials as a result of pay curbs and controls. Many people, having fled from the problems created in inner London by New Commonwealth immigration in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, voted Tory because they did not want that self-same problem to follow them into the new town. At this juncture, I pay a warm tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Eric Moonman. He had been a Member of the House on two occasions—from 1966 to 1970 for the seat of Billericay, and from February 1974 until this year for the Basildon constituency. He was well known in this House for his work for many causes, particularly that of mental health. In the constituency he had the reputation as a good constituency Member of Parliament, and I hope to follow in his footsteps. I also hope to follow in the footsteps of my hon. Friends who have represented part of my constituency—the hon Member for Essex, South-East (Sir B. Braine), the hon. and learned Member for South Fylde (Mr. Gardner), the hon. Member for Holland with Boston (Mr. Body) and the hon. Member for Brentwood and Ongar (Mr. McCrindle). There are three points that I wish to make, two of which I believe will command almost universal support and the first which may not. First, the gross Community budget is too large and should be reduced. It should not be used as an engine to drive us into economic and monetary union, as set out in the documents before the House. I agree with the right hon. Member for Battersea, North that we should not be seeking further sources of finance for the EEC until we have sorted out the CAP position. Secondly, the Community budget contains a grevious imbalance—and I refer of course to the common agricultural policy, which my hon. Friend the Financial Secretary mentioned as absorbing 70 per cent. of the budget. The Conservative Party is committed to radically re-  forming the CAP—and the sooner the better for the British taxpayer, consumer and farmer. I share the views of right hon. and hon. Members who have spoken in the debate that our share of the net contribution to the EEC budget is too large. The financial mechanism of 1975 that was intended to reduce our contribution has been calculated in the preliminary draft budget, volume 7A pages 513 to 517, at 68 million units of account or some £44 million as against the deficit of over £1,000 million. That is peanuts. It is not good enough. It is a Conservative manifesto pledge that we shall reduce the burden that the Community budget places on the public sector borrowing requirement and the British taxpayer. If unilateral action is required and nothing else, then unilateral action it must be. I quote from an observation in paragraph 96 of the White Paper of 1971:  Thus in the Government's view neither our contribution to nor our recepits from the Community budget in the 1980s are susceptible of valid estimation at this stage. That was rather an understatement. It went on:  And it is for this reason that the Community declared to us during the course of the negotiations that if unacceptable situations should arise ' the very survival of the Community would demand that the institutions find equitable solutions '. So they must. In all these areas where change is required I believe that the Government will have the full support of the House and the country. Whether Ministers wear a velvet glove in preference to a mailed fist is of purely academic interest. At certain times both will be required. What our people seek are results. If it is not trying the patience of the House too much, I shall close with some general observations on the current position of the EEC. Three options are open. There is federalism and economic and monetary union, leading to a single currency, common economic policies, common taxation and common external policies. That will lead inevitably to a supra-national State—a United States of Europe. Secondly, there is a continuation of what we have now—the break-up and breakdown of the EEC in disagreement, mutual distrust and recrimination. Unless   the EEC can get to grips with the large food surpluses, the CAP will collapse and with it the whole edifice of the bureaucratic structure of the EEC Commission. Some right hon. and hon. Gentlemen may think that that time should not be long away. Thirdly, a more positive view is that we should seek to establish a partnership of nation States, each sovereign and supreme. That would require the EEC to change its rules and role, its format and outlook, to reject the Treaty of Rome as outdated and old hat and establish a free trade area in Western Europe—as wide and diverse as possible. That is the sound and sensible approach—the middle way. Some have supported federalism honorably because they believe that the nation State has has had its day. I believe that they are out of keeping with the spirit of the age. The renaissance of the sovereign State and this our independent Parliament is at hand.
