gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have received much good advice since I came to this House, and in the matter of a maiden speech the burden of that advice has usually been, ""Wait until some topic crops up on which you are an expert, and then sail in."" Wise words, but in my case, if I were to follow that advice, I should doom myself to perpetual silence, no doubt to the relief of this House but to the disappointment of my constituents, because I can think of no problem likely to form the subject of Debate in this House in regard to which I can claim anything approaching expert knowledge.   I realise that I must eschew controversy today, and I will be on my guard, but I have one or two small bones to pick with the right hon. Lady and I hope I shall pick them most respectfully and in decorous fashion. My excuse for intervening in this Debate is that I feel that the right hon. Lady, in proposing to reduce—and I understand to reduce drastically—the number of direct grant schools, is proposing to do, for the most worthy motives, something which will prove a disservice to our national education. What are those qualities which are in particular attributes of our British education and which are, I believe, an object of admiration and envy for many people in other lands? I believe two of them to be the relative independence and freedom enjoyed by our schools, and their variety. These attributes derive from the past; they are in one sense a product of our national character and, in another sense, have had a great influence upon it. I submit that they are attributes which we must be very careful not to throw lightly away. One reason why I am not a Socialist—there may be others—is that I am frankly afraid that the logical application of Socialist principles will lead to over-standardisation, excessive uniformity, and a danger—I put it no higher—of reduced standards. Equality is a very laudable objective in many matters, but in education there is something which is even more important than equality, and that is quality. It is because I feel that if we deal harshly with the direct grant schools we are in danger of losing something in quality without gaining anything in equality of opportunity that I am opposed to the proposals of the right hon. Lady. I do not want to push that argument too far, because I am one of those who feel that some rigidity is inevitable within the scope of the State educational system, and my own experience has been that the officials of the Ministry of Education are very alive to that danger and that their attitude is invariably tolerant and sympathetic. I am not so sure, however, that the danger is not present in some of our local authorities. Some of them guide their schools wisely and with a loose rein, but there are others which, in the alleged interests of efficiency, maintain too tight a control. It is there, I think, that the risk lies. I hope the right hon. Lady will tell us what are the doubts and fears that assail her with regard to the direct grant schools. I think that she and the hon. Members who support her feel that in some way they are undemocratic, and incompatible with the principle that every child should have the education for which he is most suited. If I thought that was so I should not be standing here this afternoon, because though I am aware that I am one who has most conspicuously failed to educate himself, I do feel and appreciate most sincerely the fundamental part which education has to play in endowing our democracy with vitality, energy and poise. I am in favour of a much greater mixing together of children in our schools from different types of homes and from different walks of life. I am in favour of a greater diversity and variety of schools. Are these objectives incompatible with the schools we are discussing this afternoon? I think very much to the contrary. Equality of opportunity is surely ensured by the provision that, even in the allotment of the residuary of cases, merit should be considered and that no child should be denied access on the grounds of lack of parental means. With reference to what the right hon. Lady mentioned, that test of merit is in the existing Regulations which cover the allotment even in the residuary cases in the direct grant schools. Individuality and existing high standards are also fully preserved by the substantial measure of independence given to the direct grant schools. I feel that they stand midway between the independent schools and the maintained schools and that they bridge a gulf fairly successfully which otherwise would yawn rather menacingly. I make no attempt to forecast the needs of the distant future, because I think it is in the wise tradition of our English education to move forward step by step in accordance with the changing needs of the time, but for today and tomorrow, and as far as we can see ahead, these schools have a worthy and excellent part to play in their present semi-independent role. I am in favour of a greater mixing up of children from different homes in our schools, but not to the point of compelling parents to conform to what I think is best for them and their children. The duty of the legislator and administrator is to ensure that there shall be available a suffi-   cient number of good schools and a sufficient variety of them, and that there shall be access to them from those children who can profit from the particular type of education given in each of them. It is the duty and right of parents, surely, to exercise their right of choice among those schools to which the attainments of those children make them eligible. If the right of parents to exercise their choice in that field is acknowledged, I think there is little doubt that, taken on their merits, these schools will be found to serve a valuable purpose within the scope of our educational field, supported as they are by a wide and varied body of parents. As regards their quality, their popularity is sufficient, and as regards their quality and their popularity, I think many hon. Members opposite will agree because I have noted that many of them, when exercising their undoubted right of choice as parents, seldom strain their Socialist tenets to the point of disdaining schools where quite high fees are payable. One other argument I have heard is the objection that public money should be expended in grants to schools where fees are payable. If the school is efficient and is rendering a service—a service which does respond to an existing and, I think, a legitimate demand from parents—is that criticism justified? Surely not. That principle of financial co-operation between public and voluntary authorities is one that runs throughout our democratic institutions in this country, and it is a principle with which we in this country have made a conspicuous success. In this case, I believe the per capita grant amounts to a good deal less than half the cost of a normal place in a maintained school, and even allowing for the contribution which must be made by a local authority towards the remission of fees for the residuary places, it is an extremely economical arrangement from the point of view of the State. I am an enthusiastic supporter of the great Education Act passed last year—a milestone in our educational history that I hope will ever be engraved with the names of my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) and the right hon. Gentleman the present Home Secretary (Mr. Ede). I have been out of touch with civil affairs for six years, but on my return two months ago I found what we on county councils be-  fore the war had always felt an enormous need for, and that was a definite educational plan to work to and a clear series of objectives to aim at. Now we have got them. At present, owing to the obvious shortages, we can move only slowly, but in a year or two's time I think the risk will be the other way round, and we on local education authorities, in our enthusiasm and impatience to get on, may find that we are trying to tackle too many different things at the same time. If that arises, the big risk of dangers of over-standardisation, excessive uniformity and reduced standards will arise, and it is that, I think, against which we have to be on our watch now. The great virtue of the Education Act is that it was a successful compromise between the various interests and points of view. It reached the greatest common factor of agreement and it has been accepted by the country in that spirit. I ask the right hon. Lady to be careful before she does anything which would upset the successful balance of that Act, before she takes any steps which will reduce the variety of our schools or limit the contribution that these schools which we are discussing this afternoon may be able to make to our national education scheme. What are the facts? Let me just sum them up as I see them. I believe the direct grant schools fill an obvious need. Their standards are high, they possess the confidence of a wide and varied body of parents. From the point of view of the State, they afford an economical service, and no child need be denied access to them for lack of parental means. We on this side of the House know that the right hon. Lady has courage; we believe she also has imagination. I ask her most respectfully, as befits a new Member, to exercise those great gifts and do justice to a group of schools which I believe have given splendid service to the State in the past and are doing so today and will, if encouraged, play a worthy and a not undemocratic part within the framework of our national education service.
