gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great trepidation in a highly charged atmosphere to address the House for the first time, but I am encouraged by the traditional friendliness and appreciation which are shown to maiden speakers and which have certainly been evident to me during the past few weeks. I come from the County of Dumfries. Perhaps here I may strike my only controversial note by saying how happy I am that it is on the right side of the Scottish Border. The southern boundary is the Solway Firth. I feel that the House may come to know this stretch of water far better if the Salway Barrage scheme is fully investigated and, if found practicable, brought into being. It is a tremendous concept of far-reaching consequence to southern Scotland and northern England. I hope  that the Government will consider the possibilities with the enthusiasm they deserve. The County of Dumfries has many and diverse industries, nearly all of which are affected by the Finance Bill. It is on these problems that I want to touch for a few moments. In the development district of Upper Nithsdale, which includes Sanquhar and Kirconnel, there is a serious unemployment position. At present it is at the rate of 10·6 per cent.—a very high figure indeed. This has arisen because the coal mines of Sanquhar are worked out and closed. That is not the fault of the National Coal Board or of any Government, but it is unfortunately a fact. Early this year a new advance factory was completed and now it is let, but even in full production it may absorb only about 80 people. A second factory is urgently required. I hope it is not too late for the President of the Board of Trade to site another one in Upper Nithsdale. In a comparatively remote part of Scotland, the extra tax on fuel will not encourage industrialists to come to the area. London is 360 miles away and Glasgow 54. To London a round trip by lorry will cost an extra 35s. in tax. May I go so far as to hope that the Government will give an additional incentive to firms to come to remote areas where transport costs are disproportionately high and will be even higher under the Bill. It is also true that these areas of Scotland requiring urgent industrial development will be affected to a considerable extent by yesterday's increase in the Bank Rate. I hope that it will be reduced as soon as possible. The fuel tax has, of course, affected agriculture, and as a farmer I know this. The movement of livestock, and particularly the collection of milk, costs more and will have to be paid for by the producer, Milk producers are having a difficult period and many are leaving the industry. The increase in tax can only accelerate this trend and may cause unemployment in the creameries and milk-processing factories where there is a shortage of milk. The delivery of fertilisers and feedingstuffs will also cost more, because the vast bulk of these come by road, often directly from the factory to the   farm. I trust that the effect of the fuel tax will be taken fully into account in the coming Price Review. We must not forget also that in many cases the only means of transport for the agricultural worker, his wife and family in the more remote districts to shop and enjoy recreation is in their own motor car. They will not have a rebate scheme in the manner of a non-existent rural bus service but their need is just as great and usually far greater. I should like to know just how much the tax rebate will be for rural bus services. The finances of companies, often one-man companies, running these services are in a precarious state. Anything less than a 100 per cent. rebate of the tax may well be a death blow to them. This will certainly fall most heavily on the older folk who have no motor cars of their own. There is also the effect of fuel cost on tourism. This is a fast developing industry in Scotland. Dumfries and Galloway hope to welcome an increasing share of visitors, and with the advance of the motorways northwards and the chronic overcrowding in the Lake District the attraction of weekend visitors from England to southern Scotland is now most important. It should develop rapidly to the advantage of the economy in my district. I do not wish to see this development retarded by increasing fuel costs. Incidentally, how unfortunate it is that at the gateway to Scotland at Gretna Green we have the unusual State Licensing District which virtually prevents the building of new hotels for tourists. This was introduced during the First World War to restrain over-indulgent munition workers, but it remains today to provoke residents, tourists and runaway couples alike. I should also like to mention the effect of the increased fuel tax on aviation, and particularly on private flying. We are living in an age of technical advance, and we all know that time is money. We ought to be encouraging the use of aircraft for the rapid transport of businessmen about their work. This is particularly important to the very remote areas which are not served by regular airlines. The extra tax on fuel, which I am informed by people  at my nearest aerodrome is payable by owners of private aircraft, will slow down expansion in this direction. On a light aeroplane such as I sometimes fly, the cost per hour has gone up by 5s. to cover the tax alone, and for the larger executive-type aircraft the extra cost is at least 10s. an hour. This may just tilt the scale against the use of this type of aircraft and thus affect not only business but the aircraft industry. We ought to remind ourselves that, although the weather has much to do with it, we are years behind the United States and Canada in the timesaving use of aircraft. I suggest to the Government that they should increase the rebate of fuel tax to flying clubs and groups by 6d. per gallon to offset the new tax. Now, a brief word about the surcharge. Dumfries and Annan have an important hosiery industry. Langholm has mills manufacturing tweeds of a quality second to none. They are all concerned about the effect of the surcharge on their exports to Europe. I have seen letters from Continental importers hinting at the cancellation of orders if their countries impose a surcharge similar to ours. Other importers are demanding that the 1½ per cent. export incentive be deducted from delivery prices. I hope that the surcharge will be removed as soon as possible. I hope that the general financial position taken up by the Government will not have a detrimental effect on the future of the Chapelcross atomic energy power station. It has a fine site with ample room, ample services and an ample labour force to build and staff the new fast-breeder reactor which I believe is under consideration. I urge the Government to give the area the opportunity. I have pointed out several cases where the Finance Bill will be against the interests of rural areas. I have suggested one or two alternatives. I hope that the Government will give them consideration and later perhaps translate them into action. At a later date I hope to speak on local government, in which I have special interest. I thank the House for the consideration which it has shown to me today.
