gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity so early in my parliamentary career to speak in this Chamber. My predecessor served this House for almost as many years as I have trodden this earth, and it is only correct that I should pay tribute to the service, both to this House and to the constituency which I now represent, that he gave over those many years. It is a great pleasure to be able to pay that tribute now. The constituency of Welwyn and Hatfield is a diverse, mixed one. We have people there from every socio-economic grouping, although it is probable the House will be relieved to hear that I have yet to meet any of my constituents who are demanding home rule for the home counties. Their response to the Queen's Speech will, I am sure, be a varied one. In my constituency there are many one-parent families who will be deeply disappointed that in the Gracious Speech no mention was made of the urgent measures recommended by the Finer Committee's Report to help ease the plight of the most rapidly   growing group of families in poverty in our society today. There are families in my constituency with only one child who will not take much encouragement from the goods news that family allowances are to be increased without the news of the introduction of a family allowance for the first and only child in every family. But there is one issue to which it is only right and proper that I should devote my maiden speech. It is an issue of such importance that I have spent less time than I should have liked in learning my way around the corridors of this august establishment and more time with my constituents. The issue is, of course, the aircraft industry and, in particular, Hawker-Siddeley and the HS146. I hope that I do not contravene the rules of this House nor enter into the realms of the controversial when I say that had the right hon. Member for Bridlington (Mr. Wood) been in Hatfield this morning at a meeting of 5,000 people with regard to the aircraft industry he might have revised his opinion as to the popularity of nationalisation for that industry. Without doubt, there is an enormous groundswell of opinion from workers within the aerospace industry, from their families, and from other industries dependent on the factories of BAC and Hawker-Siddeley for their own livelihood for the proposal included in the Gracious Speech to nationalise the aircraft industry. But we have a crisis in Hatfield, one that calls for immediate action. There has been an announcement by the management of Hawker-Siddeley, which is in partnership with the Government on the development of the HS146—the only new civil aviation project that the British aircraft industry can boast—that it intends unilaterally to cancel the project. I have to choose my words carefully here: it has announced that it has unilaterally cancelled the project. The workers within the factory, having had encouragement from my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry, having staked themselves on that aircraft and its selling potential, on its viability and, most of all, on its importance to the industry as a whole, have not taken a unilateral decision to cancel the HS146. They are continuing work on that project, and I hope that they will continue to work on it. The HS146 is a civil airliner which we know will sell. I do not think that the management at any time—certainly not in my discussions with it—has said that the aircraft will not sell. We have seen in the last 15 months a vast change in the pattern of air travel internationally. We have seen a vast change in markets, but the routes that have fallen off least badly, are the very routes that the HS146 was designed to cover and will cover. The HS146 is a necessary replacement for aircraft that are going out of usable condition at this time. It would be a tragedy if, as we heard reported this week, British Airways, purely and simply because of a unilateral management decision, made perhaps on political grounds or on commercial grounds, had to go abroad to buy a foreign plane which was considered inferior to the HS146. I should not go into that because I should be accused of being controversial, but on that basis we should see our balance of payments position made even worse and the British aircraft industry run down. What frightens me is that in the intervening period between the announcement of our plans for public ownership of the aircraft industry and the time that we can get legislation through and take that industry into public ownership we shall have seen such a drastic cutback through management decision that there will be very little left to nationalise at the end of the day. That is why I call upon the House for its support and upon Her Majesty's Government for immediate action to ensure that the 20,000 jobs that are involved in this project into the 1980s are safeguarded. We are not talking about 200 redundancies at Hatfield, and we are not talking simply about the Hawker-Siddeley group: there are firms throughout the country which are dependent for their livelihood upon the health of the aircraft industry. All of us in Great Britain have reason to be proud of this industry's performance in the past. It is an industry which is dependent on the public, on the taxpayer, as its main customer; it is dependent on the public, on the taxpayer, as its main investor in research and development. We cannot allow a decision made out of spite, a decision made out of a very narrow commercial definition of what is viable and what is profitable, to prejudice   the future of 20,000 jobs for our people and one of our greatest industries. The HS146 must continue. That is the message that my constituents would be most happy for me to bring to this House in my maiden speech.
