gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to speak in this important debate on small businesses. I should like to congratulate my two new colleagues, my hon. Friends the Members for Congleton (Mrs. Winterton) and for Suffolk, Central (Mr. Lord), on their excellent maiden speeches, which it will be difficult to follow. It is a great honour to make a speech as a Member of Parliament, but it is doubly gratifying to speak as the representative of one of the great historic constituencies of this country. Many hon. Members of greater experience will recall the trepidation of a maiden speech, but in my case it is magnified because I am not the first Bellingham to make a mark in this House. Indeed, one John Bellingham made an appalling impact in this House not 30 yards from where I stand. In 1812 he became the first man in history to assassinate a British Prime Minister. It is fair to say that my name is somewhat tarnished at least in respectable circles and one of my aims in the near future will be to remove some of that blemish. Perhaps the best way to achieve that aim is to emulate some of my illustrious predecessors in my constituency. King's Lynn, as the constituency was previously called, has always set its Members exacting standards and there has always been a great tradition of the local representative serving everyone in the constituency. Our country's first Prime Minister, Sir Robert Walpole, was Member for King's Lynn from 1701 to 1716. For many generations his family dominated the local political scene. The subsequent list of Members of Parliament is long and distinguished. More recently men such as Lord Fermoy, Commander Scott-Miller, Fred Wise and Derek Page have all followed in this tradition. Indeed, Derek Page continues to serve his country in another place and will be well known to Opposition Members. Special tribute is due to my immediate predecessor, Christopher Brocklebank-Fowler, who served as Member of Parliament for the constituency from 1970 until last June. If anyone followed the Walpole family motto ""Say what you think"", surely it was he. Numerous Conservative Members and, no doubt, many of my party workers harbour animosity against Christopher Brocklebank-Fowler for crossing the Floor of the House. If he had not defected to the alliance, I should not be here today. He always worked hard for the people of his constituency and for 13 years he served their interests with commitment and determination, and his large personal following was a major factor in our general election contest. King's Lynn is the undisputed centre of the constituency and many hon. Members will be aware of its historic architecture, based on what was once the third port in the country. King's Lynn still has a thriving port and trade with Scandinavia, Germany and the Low Countries is buoyant. In the last 20 years King's Lynn has been transformed from a sleepy market and provincial town into an impressive light industrial centre. Partly that has been due to an overspill agreement with London, but partly to the entrepreneurial drive and innovation of local small business men, many of whom have set up small businesses which now trade throughout the world. Norfolk is probably best known in agricultural circles. Indeed, it was the very cradle of the agricultural revolution. Many of the great pioneers of modern agriculture came from north-west Norfolk; the Cokes of Holkham and the Townshends of Raynham were to agriculture what George Stephenson was to steam power and what my hon. Friend the Member for Luton, South (Mr. Bright) is to video nasties — great reforming zealots. Their high standards are maintained to this day and Norfolk farmers are admired throughout the land. If one heads north-west from King's Lynn one enters the famous marshland area which has a unique charm all its own. Reclaimed by Dutch engineers in the 17th and 18th centuries, it is now one of the most intensive and fertile farming areas in Britain. Its inhabitants are fiercely independent and many of them are successful horticulturists, fruit farmers and small intensive arable farmers. That end of the constituency reaches into the suburbs of Wisbech, the well-known capital of the Fens and the famous capital of the land of Pedigree Chum. I regret that my neighbour, the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire, North-East (Mr. Freud), is not in this place. I am fortunate to represent this famous constituency and I feel even more privileged in that it is my home constituency because few hon. Members are fortunate enough to represent their home constituencies. Perhaps I am running the risk of mentioning only the good things about my constituency. Relative to other parts of the country we have not suffered the worst ravages of the recession. Nevertheless, the last eight years have seen many of our larger firms embark on a process of rationalisation which has resulted in the shedding of a great deal of labour. Indeed, two large firms fell victim to the recession and had to close. Unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, has risen to intolerable levels, and it is only now that there is   real hope on the horizon. Our road network, and particularly our road communications with London, the north and the midlands still cry out for improvement. Recently the Al7 received a major new bypass, but we still have a long way to go. Our fisher fleet, based on the well-known Wash shell fisheries, is in desperate need of modern facilities. Those are a few of the matters which I shall be raising in the House in the months and years ahead. We face daunting problems, but the people of north-west Norfolk, as well as being independent and imaginative, realise that their plight is nothing unique as the nation faces one of the most difficult times in its history. Our business men, industrialists, local government officers, trade unionists, farmers and fishermen are facing great challenges. I am looking forward to working with them and for them. One reason for my enthusiasm is my sure knowledge that things are improving. Despite what the hon. Members for Yeovil (Mr. Ashdown) and for Coventry, North-West (Mr. Robinson) said, the prospects are now better than they have been for many years and the Government's economic policy has laid a sound and secure foundation for a resurgence in employment and prosperity in my constituency. The cornerstone of Government economic policy, as the Under-Secretary said, is the continued reduction of inflation and interest rates, and what happens on those two fronts is of paramount importance to the small business men in my constituency. During the election campaign, many local small business men kept telling me that what they feared most was a rise in either inflation or interest rates, and in that context the national picture is now very encouraging indeed. In addition, during the last four years the Government have done a great deal on the supply side of the economy to improve the conditions and climate in which existing small businesses operate and in which new small businesses can have a chance to start up. Above all, during the last four years we have had a small business policy, and north-west Norfolk has benefited a great deal from that policy. I go so far as to say that small businesses are the key to our future locally. Time and again I have told people that we cannot expect subsidiaries of multinationals to locate in King's Lynn when they can go to, say, Corby or Humberside and enjoy all the privileges of an enterprise zone regime. That is why we depend totally on new small business starting up and existing ones expanding, and that is why I have such a vested interest in the Government's small business policy. I recall the Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food saying at the Brighton conference a year ago: The nation will not benefit from these schemes unless the customer, the small business firm itself, knows about them and is prepared to take advantage of them. That point was succinctly put by the Minister in opening the debate today. Time and again in recent years people have said to me, ""If only we had known about this scheme. We knew about it too late."" That is why, despite the business opportunities programme which was launched successfully two years ago and despite the department's excellent booklet, ""How to Make Your Business Grow"", the Government have a long way to go in disseminating information to the public about what is on offer. It is not all in the Government's court, because the small business man has a major part to play in  disseminating the information, and that is why I welcome the growth and development of the local enterprise agency concept. The concept is simple because it is really only the pooling of resources and talent in a community and making them available to small business men. When business men in my constituency come to me complaining and whingeing about the Government — they are not doing that so much now, with good reason — I reply, ""Cannot we start a local enterprise agency here? That would be one way in which you could play a constructive role in tackling unemployment and helping small businesses."" For that reason I am convinced that local enterprise agencies have a great future, and I welcome the firm support which has been given to them by the Under-Secretary. The Minister and the hon. Member for Yeovil referred to the small firms service. I am a great critic of Government regional policy. If money can be saved by a major restructuring of that policy, then money spent extending the small firms service will be money well spent, because at present it is too thinly spread throughout the country. Small business men in my constituency who wish to make use of the service may have a free phone, but they must otherwise go all the way to Cambridge. I therefore urge the Minister to do all he can to extend the service. The Minister should also give his attention to Government contracts. We talk a great deal about value for money and cost effectiveness, and this is an area where the taxpayer need not be put to extra expense. Central Government Departments are responsible for generating a huge amount of business in the economy, but for too long smaller firms have not had a proper look-in. In 1971 the Bolton report highlighted this point and showed how countries such as Japan and America possessed advanced procurement programmes geared to the small firms sector. Alas, since 1971 progress in this sphere has been far from encouraging. The trend was reversed somewhat earlier this year when the Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food announced that he would facilitate the access of small firms to Government contracts and simplify the tendering and approval procedures, and recently the Minister of Defence decided that all the order documents shall include an entry showing the number of employees in the firm carrying out the order. It will now be possible actively to study the proportion of defence work that is being done by small and medium-sized firms. This represents a great improvement and I am glad that the Minister of Defence has produced an excellent document entitled ""Selling to the MOD"". It is a pity that the hon. Member for Coventry, North-West (Mr. Robinson) is not in his place to hear about the document, which goes into much detail on the exact procedure that small firms should adopt when tendering. It lists a number of points of contact with the Ministry of Defence and gives many useful hints. As my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence observes in the forward to the booklet: at the end of the day, it is still up to the individual firm to win our custom by establishing that it can provide what the armed forces need on time and at the right price. But we on our part must do all we can to explain to firms what our requirements are and how we expect them to be met and especially to small firms, who may not know how to get into the system to find out. I am pleased to pass a copy of the booklet to my hon. Friend the Minister, who is probably an author of it. We are not asking for statutory positive discrimination in favour of small firms. I am certainly not advocating a   statutory set aside. However, many other Departments could show the same originality and imagination as the Ministry of Defence in its dealings with small firms. I urge my hon. Friend the Minister to push this point home. The revamped British Technology Group must be far more imaginative in backing small companies that are in the centre of the current technological revolution. I hope that the BTG will be working hard to promote an increase in the share of state research and development contracts awarded to the small firms sector. The past four years have seen a staggering growth in the Government's awareness of the importance of the small firm sector. Ministers are rightly proud of the 100 or so specific measures that they have introduced since 1979. All Conservative Members made great play of these measure during the election campaign and great credit is due to my hon. Friends the Members for Hampshire, North-West (Mr. Mitchell) and for Norfolk, South (Mr. MacGregor), who are now the Under-Secretary of State for Transport and the Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food respectively. By far the most significant achievement is much less tangible. During the past four years my hon. Friends have encouraged the idea of entrepreneurship and have placed self-employment and small businesses on an entirely different plane of respectability. There has been a radical transformation in Britain's perception of the small business sector. Great things are expected of my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State and he will have the support of the Conservative Back Bench committee. I am certain that he will enjoy great personal success.
