gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time I have had the honour of addressing this House and I therefore ask hon. Members to accord to me the indulgence which they always so courteously grant to newcomers. I propose to address myself to one aspect, possibly the most important aspect, of the cold war. I refer to the struggle between the Western democracies on the one hand and Soviet Russia on the other, over the future of Germany. Whatever may be the dangers in South-East Asia and the Middle East, I think there is no doubt that the greatest threat to peace today lies in the existence of two German States incorporated in two hostile political systems. The danger, and if it were not so tragic the absurdity, of the situation can be seen in an extreme form in Berlin. The United States Secretary of State, Mr. Acheson, put the point very clearly when, in his recent speech in California, he laid down seven principles for the relaxation of tension with Soviet Russia. He put forward the following proposition: that Germany should be unified under a government chosen in free elections under international observation. This, he suggested, would be followed by a treaty of peace. This theme was taken up a few days later by Dr. Adenauer, and it is one to which I think we can all subscribe in  principle. Whether it is to succeed or not will depend upon how it is applied. The immediate reaction of the Government of the Eastern zone, presumably acting under the orders of Moscow, was one of hostility. This was perhaps natural, as the proposition, coming both from the United States Secretariat and Dr. Adenauer, removed one of the main weapons in the armoury of propaganda of the Communists in the Eastern zone. It does not mean that the proposal has been finally rejected. The Russians have for a long time toyed with the idea of a general withdrawal of occupation troops from Germany. They may decide that it would be worth their while to agree to the election of a government of a unified Germany, even if they did not like that Government or like the constitution under which it was set up. They would probably hope that the way would then be open for carrying out the so-called neutrality policy which many leading Germans on both sides of the Iron Curtain have favoured. I venture to suggest to the House that if this policy were adopted we should get the worst of all worlds. Germany would be in a position to play one group off against another. She would become a happy hunting ground for Communist propagandists. Moreover, unless the Western German Government were first provided with strong and well-equipped police forces, she would become the prey of the well-armed Volkspolizei now existing in Eastern Germany. Finally, it would mean the end of any plan for admitting Germany into the Council of Europe. For those reasons, a united Germany could not be allowed to remain in a vacuum. But if that is so, what is the alternative? In the first place, any proposal for unifying Germany must wait until after the admission of Germany to the Council of Europe. That must be the first step. I hope, as my right hon. Friend has said this afternoon, that it will be possible so to arrange matters that Germany is admitted as an associate member at the forthcoming meeting of the Committee of Ministers this week and can take her place at the Assembly at Strasbourg this summer. I hope also that Dr. Adenauer will not insist upon the conditions which he has announced as pre-requisite for German membership. The first two are   purely formal. The third, namely, that Germany's status as an associate member should be of short duration and that meanwhile she should be given an observer on the Committee of Ministers, seems to me a different matter. Until Germany has full control of her own foreign relations, she certainly cannot be admitted as a full member. To change this would involve an alteration of the Occupation Statute or the conclusion of a peace treaty. As regards the question of an observer, this appears to me to be simply an attempt to get round the terms of the Statute. I see no reason either to yield to German political pressure in this respect or to run after her, and I think this proposal should be resisted. Once the Federal German Republic is admitted to the European Assembly, the way will be open for discussions on the proposals which Mr. Acheson and Dr. Adenauer have put forward for the unification of the country. I will not attempt to go into this today, because it is a long and complicated problem. But if the prodigious difficulties which undoubtedly exist could be overcome, we should then be faced with the possibility of a peace treaty, and the moment we get a peace treaty the question of German defence automatically arises. We are then faced with the question either of leaving Germany as a neutral vacuum or of arranging some form of defence system for her. I believe that a vacuum would be wrong and dangerous, and I have no doubt whatever that the only way is to incorporate Germany in some form of global European defence system. Whether we like it or not, the Statute of Europe will eventually have to be altered so as to include defence. Once Germany has a peace treaty, it is only by providing defence on a European basis that the burden of cost and manpower will fall fairly on all those who are benefiting from it. Any such proposal must, of course, depend on removing the fears and suspicions of France. I believe, with my right hon. Friend, that there is a real opportunity today to wipe out the bitterness that four German invasions of France have left behind them. I believe that, with the support of the United States and with the close alliance of this country, France can afford to contemplate and even to welcome the  presence of Germany playing her full part in the Council of Europe. But the Council itself, it seems to me, cannot succeed unless there is unreserved British participation. It is not only a question of our endorsing or carrying out the recommendations made at the Assembly last year. A new attitude of mind towards the Council is wanted. The Council of Europe is a living force which must be accepted and supported by all its members not only in the letter but in the spirit. The difficulties of European economic integration and co-operation are, of course, very great. The political problems are perhaps still greater. They have to be met and overcome. We have often been told that the bar to full British participation in the Council of Europe is the fact that we are an Imperial Power. I do not believe that this is the case. Dominions statesmen throughout the world have made it quite clear that they understand the importance of European unity. Just as the United States now realise that they cannot a second time divorce themselves from Europe, so our own kith and kin in the Commonwealth understand that it is the failure of Europe to resolve her own problems which has brought their sons over here to fight and die twice in a generation. Therefore, anything that we can do to build up in Europe a system which will not only preserve peace but will extend the possibility of economic development for the Dominions themselves will be greeted by them with acclamation. It must be our task to associate our partners overseas in the work we are doing in Europe. It is the surest foundation of peace. I am convinced that the whole of Europe is waiting today for a lead from this country, as indeed they have been waiting for five years. We must not let this opportunity slip through our hands. I think it needs only imagination and courage for Britain, already the leader of a united Commonwealth, to become the leader of a united Europe and perhaps one day of a united world.
