gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In asking for the indulgence of the House that is customarily given to a maiden speech, I am very conscious of the fact that there are a large number of hon. Members who are much better qualified than myself to speak on the important topic we are debating this afternoon, so I shall be brief. I hope I shall not be considered controversial if I refer to a point made by the right hon. Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell), because I am quite sure he would not wish to mislead the House. He referred to the sale of dollar investments by the Bank of England to British investors as representing a loss of foreign exchange earnings to this country. That is not, in fact, the case. British investors purchasing such securities must lodge them with what is known as an authorised depository. That authorised depository is a financial institution which is, to a certain extent, controlled by the Bank of England. The authorised depository keeps control of those securities. The coupons or  dividends are, of course, automatically credited to the exchange control again and there is no loss of dollars there. Alternatively, should there be an emergency, it would be very much within the power of the Bank of England to requisition those securities, exactly as was done in 1939. I mention that point because I feel that the right hon. Member would not wish to give a misleading impression to the House. We find ourselves in a dynamic and expanding economy in which we have to keep our place and we can never manage that by methods of restriction and curtailment. Therefore, we must adapt ourselves to the world as we find it if we are to keep our place in it. Our shortage today is a shortage of capital. That is not very surprising. Before the war, we had a cushion of overseas investments to protect us from the difficulties in which we might find ourselves from time to time in our overseas payments situation. Those overseas investments are entirely lost. I do not think we would have it otherwise. When, in the war, we prepared to sacrifice our lives and—what was perhaps even more difficult—to order others to sacrifice their lives, we would not have thought such action proper if, at the same time, action had been taken to safeguard our investments. I think we would have felt quite convinced that the human sacrifice could not be justified unless the sacrifice of financial advancement was made first. We therefore found ourselves, after the war, at the centre of a trading empire without sufficient means to maintain our position. It is not surprising that, from time to time, we have these difficulties in the balance of payments; but it shows the strength of our recovery that they become increasingly lighter. Each so-called crisis has been less lethal and each has shown our powers of recuperation in a stronger light. In our dual rôle as traders and manufacturers and also as bankers to the sterling area, it is essential that we should recover from these crises as soon as possible and by the quickest means. Our position after the war was a little like that of the traveller in Jules Vernes' book, ""Round the World in Eighty Days,"" who, in order to complete his passage across the Atlantic when the ship he had chartered ran out of fuel, chopped down the superstructure and   burned it in the furnace so that the ship could proceed. That was our position in 1945. We came out of the war with only our battle honours and our resolution. In those circumstances, we had to make great concessions to the future in order to obtain the loans and finance we needed to try to set ourselves on our legs. We are paying for those loans today, but our economy is fundamentally expansionist and enterprising. In my constituency, Walsall, which is known as the town of a hundred trades, I am daily astonished by the variety of human ingenuity put to manufacturing purposes in that great Midlands centre and the enormous adaptability of manufacturers there. These are great assets. We would be untrue to ourselves if we attempted to introduce an economy which did not give full rein to them. But we have a dual rôle. We have also to act as bankers to the sterling area and retain the confidence of our overseas clients. Probably all of us expect a slight difference in behaviour between our bank manager and ourselves. We expect to see him perhaps a degree better dressed, a degree more staid in his manners, and perhaps a little less likely to go to the ""local."" In the same way we, acting as bankers to the sterling area, must keep the confidence of our depositors. How-can we best manage that? At present, we have three enormous assets. Our first asset, which is one which must appeal to all interested in investment, is that we have a stable system of Government. Secondly, we have a people intensely patriotic, enterprising and ready to accept the call of its leaders. Thirdly, we are lucky today to have a financial leader to give us just what we want, whose words are words which are listened to not only in this country but all over the world. I speak as one having business with people in many other countries, but this is an opinion not simply learned from them—although they are people in dozens of other countries. It is also the view of my constituents in Walsall. We have as Chancellor a man whom we can trust entirely. That is the great asset which this country enjoys in the world at the moment and which is recognised by the fact that the Chancellor is Chairman of O.E.E.C. The combination of these advantages and a dynamic drive will enable us undoubtedly to survive this minor upset. The dynamic approach to our difficulties is the one which will get us out of them. I am quite certain that our balance of payments difficulties will very soon be turned by the influx of foreign investment. We are short of capital and we would welcome foreign investment in this country. Today, we offer better prospects for the investor than any other country in the Western world, a stable system, a prudent Chancellor and an industrious population. I hope that I have not trespassed on the indulgence of the House.
