gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy-Speaker, in rising to address the House for the first time I ask for your indulgence and that of all hon. Members. I ask for the indulgence always accorded to a Member making his maiden speech, but I also ask as both the youngest and the newest Member of the House, both of which distinctions, if distinctions they be, I have recently snatched from my hon. Friend the Member for Aberdeenshire, East (Mr. Wolrige-Gordon), whose tenure of those posts was very brief. When one arrives in the House one is given much advice, frequently conflicting, as to when is the best time to make one's maiden speech. I have consulted the maiden speeches of my three predecessors who sat for the Borough of Southend-on-Sea. They had only one thing in common. They ranged from the merits of the Prayer Book to the demerits of nationalisation, but all three were highly controversial. My aim today will be to try to make the first non-controversial maiden speech by a Member of my family for a very long time. I chose this debate to make my maiden speech because, as far as I can ascertain, I am the only hon. Member in the House who has had the opportunity of serving in the Army in Cyprus during the recent emergency, even though it was for only a few short months. I am sure that the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan) will forgive me if I do not follow him in that part of his remarks which related to the apportionment of blame and the reasons for the long delay in bringing about a settlement of the Cyprus situation. I welcome that part of the Opposition Motion which stresses the good work done by our Forces in Cyprus and welcomes the Agreement. I was in the island at the time when Archbishop Makarios was deported. Since that time there have been several truces—a short one in 1956, a longer one in 1957 and two last year.   Now there has been a truce since Christmas. In between those temporary lulls the rôle of the Army in Cyprus has not been a pleasant one. It cannot have been pleasant to have walked around the streets of Nicosia or Famagusta with the ever-present danger that one might be shot in the back. In my opinion—and I think that this is non-controversial—the part played by the Army in Cyprus and the great restraint shown by those in the Forces at all times have played a great part in achieving the present settlement. If the British Army had behaved differently and retaliated to the provocation which it received on so many occasions, a situation might well have developed in which relations between this country and Greece would have been permanently embittered. I am glad that both my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale stressed how the Army played its part in the settlement. I am especially interested in that portion of the Agreement which relates to the British enclaves to be created in Cyprus. I cannot speak with any firsthand knowledge of the Episkopi enclave, so I will confine my remarks to the enclave round Dhekelia. This enclave stretches from Dhekelia almost to the outskirts of Famagusta and covers a large section of territory. Hon. and right hon. Members will have noticed that the main Famagusta-Nicosia road will pass through the enclave. As all trade and traffic in Cyprus goes by road and the railway between Famagusta and Nicosia no longer exists, it will be realised that a very large proportion of the trade of the island will pass daily from the only port of importance, Famagusta, to the capital, Nicosia, and to nearly all the island—always going through part of the British enclave. To avoid that would require a very long detour. What arrangements will be made in the enclaves for this continual flow of trade should Cyprus decide not to stay within the British Commonwealth—though we hope that she will—or should she decide not to stay part of the sterling area? Another point in which I am especially interested concerning the British enclaves  is what will happen to those villages in the enclaves that were particularly sympathetic to the idea of Enosis and were especially strong supporters of the E.O.K.A. movement. They now find themselves in areas to be specifically reserved for British sovereignty. What attempts will be made to make those villages happy under British sovereignty? I am thinking especially of the village of Athna, on the main Famagusta-Larnaca road, which will probably be included in the enclave, and the village of Avgorou, one mile south of the main Nicosia-Famagusta road, which will almost certainly be included in the enclave. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has told me that he cannot yet give any accurate estimate of the number of people who live in these enclaves, but there are, perhaps, more than 15,000 Cypriots who do so. I hope that every attempt will be made to have the closest possible liaison between the local authorities and the British administration in the enclaves. I trust that every attempt will also be made to provide adequate educational facilities for the British, Greek-Cypriot and Turkish-Cypriot people in these areas. The last hon. Member to make a maiden speech in a Cyprus debate, as far as I can discover, was my noble Friend the Member for Hertford (Lard Balniel), who spoke at great length on the importance of providing higher and technical education in Cyprus. I am sure that it is vital that those projects, even should they fall behind in the rest of the island—and we all hope that they will not—must yet be carried forward in the enclaves, so that we can prove our ability to provide and maintain the sort of local governmental institutions that the island has been so sorely lacking for many centuries. We have a great opportunity in the enclaves to provide these opportunities for people of all races. I was lucky enough last summer to spend a month along the south coast of Turkey and I think that we are very fortunate to have obtained this present Agreement, because at that time the tension, the anti-Greek feeling among people of all classes, was very strong indeed. There seemed to be little, if any, communication between the Greek Dodecanese Islands and the mainland of Turkey, so very near to them. Even the little island of Castel Orizo, which now belongs to Greece, two miles from the shores of Turkey, has not had any communication whatsoever with the Turkish mainland for a very long time. The result is that this once important island has dwindled—its population grows smaller and smaller cacti year—because the Greeks on the island and the Turks on the mainland have no desire to meet, nor any wish to mingle in any way. I hope that one of the results of the Agreement will be to slacken the tension that exists today on the south and west coasts of Turkey. It is often said in this House that Cyprus presents a very peculiar problem. It is not a purely colonial problem—otherwise it might have been settled some time ago—nor is it a purely international problem. It is the mingling of both the colonial and the international aspects that has proved so difficult in the past few years, but I think that the lesson this Agreement must teach us is that no international problem can be said to be entirely insoluble. A year ago, perhaps, it would not have been believed that we could reach this Agreement today. There will be many difficulties in the years to come and many chances for this settlement to fail, but, at least, we have managed to get the good will of the three nations most actively concerned to try to solve the problem. When I was at school—and I have been forcefully reminded by some hon. Members opposite that it was not all that long ago—I was taught that the island of Cyprus was traditionally the island of love—the island where Venus first appeared, somewhat scantily clad—off the coast of Paphos. This spirit of love has been sorely lacking in Cyprus for the last few years. That is the tragedy of the past. I know that all hon. Members hope that the future of Cyprus will be very different. Perhaps, if all goes well in the island, this will be the last full-scale debate on its future in this House, and I am proud to have had the opportunity of taking part in it.
