gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to thank you very much, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for calling me in this debate, and also for calling me so soon after the other maiden speakers who have already spoken, because sitting on this bench, waiting to make a maiden speech, it not a thing which anyone can enjoy. I must ask the House to give me its usual indulgence. I apologise for the fact that I am the third maiden speaker in a row from this side of the House, but these things have got to be done some time. Nobody who has been returned for Ulster can possibly keep quiet when unemployment is being discussed. Indeed, it took very considerable self-restraint on the part of Ulster Members, when the Local Employment Bill was being discussed, not to take part in the debate. Of course, they would have been out of order, as the Bill does not refer to Ulster, and, therefore, could not speak about Ulster when that Bill was being discussed. Before I deal with the subject of unemployment in Ulster I take the usual opportunity of mentioning my predecessors and my constituency. Before I was returned for Antrim, North, at the last election, the county had been represented by the O'Neill family for very nearly one hundred years. The O'Neills were members of the Ulster Unionist Party in this House for a very long time indeed, and particularly in those heroic days of Ulster Unionism when our heroes, Carson and Craigavon, fought across this Floor against Tim Healey and John Redmond. Not long ago one of the O'Neills became the Father of this House and he now sits in another place. The O'Neill coat of arms appears on one of the shields there by the door of this Chamber which commemorates those Members who fell in the Great War. The O'Neills have been popular in North Antrim for many years. They were often returned unopposed, and, when opposed, they have been returned with large majorities. It is also a tribute to the name and standing of the O'Neills in County Antrim, and the honest loyalty of the people of County Antrim, that when I, a comparative stranger, was nominated by the Unionist Party, I received exactly the same support that the O'Neills had always had. County Antrim is probably one of the finest counties in the British Isles. It is very common for a maiden speaker to describe his constituency as a microcosm of the whole country. Although it is a hackneyed gambit, I say it again. North Antrim has got everything that is worth having in the United Kingdom, and I think that we have got it better. We have the finest whiskey, spelt with an ""e"", or spelt without an ""e"". It is made at Bushmills. We have Irish linen, and Irish linen shirts are made at Ballymena as well as anywhere in the world. We also have—what many people do not know—the largest eel fishery in the British Isles. We are not very fond of eels in North Antrim. We do not eat them, but we send them to Holland and to London. We prefer the salmon we catch in the rivers of the county and in the sea. We have beautiful scenery on the Ulster Coast Road, very fine farmland and some of the most solid farmers to farm it. There is one thing wrong with the whole of North Antrim, and the whole of Ulster. It is unemployment. It is an absolute blot on the whole country. Ulster is a land running with milk and honey, but we have unemployment. If we could cure that we would have very little to complain about. We do not come under the new Act, but that Act will have a very serious effect on Ulster, because when assistance is stepped up in England and Wales, in local unemployment areas, immediately there will be very heavy competition with Ulster. We are trying to get industries to Ulster, but now we shall have the big guns in the other areas competing with us. We shall find it extremely difficult to get more industries into Ulster, but we need them very badly. The overall percentage of unemployment in Ulster is very nearly 8 per cent. It was 7·8 per cent. at the last count. To bring this home to myself, I looked up the list. I found that Ballymoney, a very small market town, had about 1,100 unemployed; Ballymena had 900 and Larne had 500. Anyone who knows those areas knows that those are large figures for small, not thickly-populated, places. It is country unemployment. The majority of unemployment in Ulster is in the country and is not so apparent as in other places. One does not see people standing about at street corners smoking  ""fag ends"". If one motors through Ulster one does not see people standing around street corners, but there are unemployed in large numbers in the country even if they cannot be seen. We have all been worried that firms will go to Scotland, Wales and the North-East of England and we shall not get them in Ulster. We definitely look for an assurance that Ulster will not be forgotten. I ask for an assurance that the name of Ulster, which has the heaviest unemployment of any area, will be read between the lines of this list of which we have been talking so much and that Ulster will always be thought of when new industries are to expand. I consulted my Ulster Unionist friends before deciding to speak in this debate. They asked me particularly not to demand, but to ask, of the Ministers two assurances. One is that when the Ulster Government, at Stormont, puts up schemes to increase incentives for industry to go to Ulster they will receive a most sympathetic hearing in London for those schemes. The second assurance is that when a firm is refused a development licence in the Midlands, or in London, and is advised to go elsewhere, the claims of Ulster will be pushed just as much and as firmly as the claims of any place named on the list that we are discussing. In turn, I can give an assurance that any firm which comes to Ulster will never have any reason to complain about its treatment there. We have never asked for charity in Ulster. We want firms to come there to make money. I can assure the House, and I can assure any firm which is contemplating coming to Ulster, that it will be no fault of the people of Ulster if it does not make money when it moves its factory over the Irish Sea.
