gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I realise that I have to cast myself on the mercy of the House in making my maiden speech   on a rather abstruse subject. I would reinforce the plea that the Bill should be much simplified. That there is a difference of interpretation between the present Minister of Health and the former Minister of Health is an illustration of the difficulty which faces ordinary people reading a Bill of this description. It leads one to suspect that there is something in the suggestion occasionally made that laws are drafted by lawyers for the sake of lawyers. Farbe it from me to endorse such a suggestion; I only pass it on. Those of us with experience of building after the last war know the difficulties there were, and how decisions were given in varying ways. I am grateful to my right hon. Friend the Minister for bringing in this Bill, which will do something to clarify the situation. Our building by-laws, whether they be the code of the L.C.C. to the establishment of which I had the pleasure of giving some years of my life, or whether they be the other building by-laws throughout the country, which are, I am told, very largely based on the by-laws of the L.C.C, must be, maintained, as far as possible, for the health and well-being of our people. The justification for these by-laws has been the greatly improved health of our people. Every Member of this House will at least pay lip service to town planning. It is lamentable that the exigencies of wartime have caused town planning ideas to be hopelessly smashed. One regrets it, but one bows to the necessities of the situation. If buildings are to be allowed to remain we may find ourselves saddled for a number of years with buildings, and arrangements of land which are the negation of town planning. I reinforce the plea of the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. Bossom) that decisions should be given as speedily as possible. It used to be the case in connection with certain applications that if a decision were not given within a limited period, assent could be assumed. The situation to-day is the exact reverse of that. I can bear out the suggestion that, frequently, when applications were too numerous, and it was not possible to consider them properly, an applicant was given a refusal, with an intimation that he might come back again. That entails a real hardship on applicants. Today, we want to help those who are in a position to build and who have licences to build, to proceed  as speedily as possible, not only for the sake of the building trade, but for the sake of the improvement which their buildings would represent. I urge upon the Minister to arrange that when appeals come to his Department they shall be dealt with as speedily as possible. We want to avoid the disgruntled applicant, whether he be concerned with a local authority or with a Government Department, for when people are disgruntled they sometimes attribute motives which. possibly do not exist. I am sorry to hear the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member for Wallasey (Captain Marples) that the present day means of speeding a matter in connection with the L.C.C. is to take somebody out to lunch. When I had the honour to be Chairman of the Town Planning Committee of the L.C.C., that was the last thing which would have helped towards a solution..
