gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, trust that the Committee will grant me the tolerance which is usual for a Member making his first speech in this Chamber. I was particularly interested in the remark of the hon. Member for Cirencester and Tewkesbury (Mr. Ridley), that the Budget is irrelevant. I wondered whether the old people in my constituency of Kingston-upon-Hull. North would say that an increase in their pension was irrelevant. It would be very interesting to get their reactions. I, too, was struck by the same point as the President of the Board of Trade, that the right hon. Member for Barnet (Mr. Maudling) failed to mention the pensions increase in his speech. He, too, presumably thought it was irrelevant. The country will be interested to know that when we go to it again in four or five years' time. Those of us who have worked among old people, those of us who have been on old people's welfare associations, war pensioners' committees, and so on, know the poverty that still exists. In this debate, when old people and old-age pensions have been mentioned so often, I   have been reminded of an incident that happened only a few weeks ago in Hull. I saw a queue outside a church hall waiting for the doors to open for a jumble sale. In the queue there was an old gentleman upon whom I had called a few days earlier. He recognised me and greeted me. I asked him what he hoped to buy at the jumble sale. He replied, ""You see my shirt. It is the only one I have. I could do with a new one. I have to wash this one out and hang it up and dry it for the next day"". So, in England, in 1964, we have descamisados—""shirtless ones"". I for one plead that the Budget proposals shall include some measure of alleviation of the distress of the poverty-stricken in this country. The same applies to widows. Any of us who have, like myself, been brought up by a widowed mother know the struggles that widows have to endure and realise that one of the finest pieces of legislation that the Government could bring into operation would be legislation to increase the benefits for widows. It is the same with regard to unemployment benefit and other benefits. But there is one point in connection with unemployment benefit that I would draw to the attention of those who would be responsible for reviewing the details of future legislation about it. About 18 months or two years ago I had a long spell of unemployment—brought about, I might mention, by the fact that a Conservative board of directors sacked me because I had been adopted as a Labour candidate. Naturally, I went to the employment exchange and filled out the usual form. At the end of the first week I was paid as a single person. The Chancellor told us that unemployment benefit for married couples would be £6 10s. But the employment exchange does not look upon a married couple automatically as being married. As I say, I was paid as a single man. When I remonstrated, I was told that when I filled out the form I said that my wife was doing a part-time job. Of course, my wife was doing a part-time job. One in every three women in industry today is married and doing either full-time or part-time work because of the standard of living, the high cost of rents, and so on. My wife had to go to work so that I should be able to pay the high  rent, but because she earned more than £2 a week she was classified as being able to keep herself, and, therefore, I obtained unemployment benefit only as a single person. I hope that that will be looked into. It is not fair to classify as being independent a wife who has to go out to work to eke out what is already a low income when her husband is out of work and is getting an even lower income still. I am very glad that the Government have brought in these changes. The old people will be grateful to them, just as they were vocal in their condemnation of the previous Administration, which I have always called the ""Bingo Government"". Those of us whose local organisations have tried to raise money by running bingo know that when the caller comes to No. 13 he says ""Lucky for some"". The Bingo Government that we have just got rid of was lucky for some—lucky for the land speculator, the take-over bidder and the tax evader. The present Government will be lucky for some—lucky for the pensioner, the unemployed, the disabled and the chronic sick—and I am sure that our ""lucky for some"" will be far more appreciated than other people's ""lucky for some"". Perhaps I might just say one word in conclusion. I bear in mind that I have been told to be both brief and noncontroversial. I would remind the Prime Minister that he is in a very difficult position at the moment because not merely has he the Leader of the Opposition, the ex-Prime Minister, watching him very carefully, not merely has he in the country ex-Prime Ministers like Lord Attlee, Lord Avon, Mr. Macmillan and Sir Winston Churchill, but behind him on these benches he has another ex-Prime Minister in the person of the hon. Member for Kingston upon Hull, North, who was the Prime Minister in the famous Cairo Forces Parliament during the war and will be keeping an eye on him, too.
