gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have listened, I think, to all the speeches but one in this Debate, and all that I have gathered from the other side of the   House is that hon. Members there are interested in the compensation and financial aspects of this Bill. It is true that one hon. Member did suggest that we might consider the consumer aspect, and it would be interesting to the House to hear something in that respect from hon. Members opposite. One cannot develop a long argument, as one would wish, and, therefore, I am going to content myself, first of all, with congratulating the Minister on this excellent Bill, and to asking him if he will, in due course, look at one or two aspects of it. The Minister this afternoon drew attention to the fact that the Central Authority would be empowered to manufacture equipment and so on, and I want to congratulate him on having put that into his Bill. As one who has been associated for many years with local authority electrical undertakings, and another one of greater importance today, I have, on many occasions, when asking for tenders, discovered the appalling fact that probably eight, nine or ten tenders submitted were within 6d. or 1s. of one another. The same thing applies in respect of tenders for equipment. It is well known to those who give out tenders that the firm or contractor who is to have the contract is informed in advance to that effect by his own colleagues. We have heard this afternoon that this Bill will do away with competition. In regard to plant and equipment. I congratulate the Minister very sincerely in that respect. I do not wish to go over the whole ground of compensation again, but I would like to remind the House that only 20 per cent. of the municipal undertakers are providing revenue in respect of rates. With regard to Clause 7, which deals with the consultative councils, as I have already said, approximately two-thirds of the country's electricity supply is under local authority control. Local authorities, who are at present authorised undertakers in a large number of cases, purchase rights which will enable them to become undertakers. Local authorities are themselves large consumers of electricity, particularly for street lighting. I wish to draw the Minister's attention to the London area. I am informed that, in the London area, there are, approximately,. 50 local authorities. Assuming  that the Minister agrees to the maximum of 30 members on the consultative council, only 15 of the local authorities would be represented out of a possible 50. I have been asked to approach the Minister with a view to increasing that 15 to 20. It is felt that the London areas are so interconnected that there should be a better opportunity for the consumers to be represented than is at present envisaged. Of course, the Minister might say that he cannot make special provisions for London alone. But may I call his attention to the fact that, with only 15 members representing the consumers in the very large areas, it may mean that it is well nigh impossible for the representatives to con-, tact one another, and, that, therefore, a true expression of opinion would probably not be obtained from the consumer angle? My right hon. Friend has made provision for the consultative councils to set up, if they wish, small subcommittees. That is a great advantage which is appreciated, but, in addition to that, it is thought that two-thirds of a council of 30 will be far better than the present proposal. Another matter I would like him to look into concerns pensions. Clause 48 provides that the Minister ""may"" make regulations for this purpose. I suggest that he ""shall"" make regulations in order to clear up that matter satisfactorily. This afternoon an hon. Member referred to the need for tribunals to hear disputes and applications from consumers. I would again ask my right hon. Friend to look into that problem and see whether it is possible to set up an independent tribunal, whereby a consumer, large or small, either himself or through his local authority, can make representations to an impartial body. I would like to make one more point, and that is in regard to the many Statutes which are involved in this Bill. I would ask my right hon. Friend, as soon as possible, to consolidate all the Statutes involved. We feel it would be much easier for those who will be charged with the responsibility of administering the undertaking, and it would be better for all concerned. Finally, when he is dealing with the regulations, particularly with relation to Clause 56, on the question of law and fact, I would ask him to be a little more definite and give us some further explanation on that point.
