gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have met with so much kindness from both sides of the House since I came here that I am encouraged to claim the indulgence of the House in making my maiden speech. I am the Member for Galloway, and I think that many hon. Members on both sides of the House have recently had the opportunity of visiting my constituency. I am sure that all those who did not know it before came away impressed by the beauty of its scenery, its efficient and well-kept farms and the friendliness of the people of Galloway. At the same time, we have in Galloway unemployment problems, too, mainly caused by the closing down of defence establishments. For example, our unemployment rate is now twice what it was four years ago. In my own town of Stranraer, unemployment now is 6·4 per cent. compared with 2·5 per cent. a year ago. This is caused partly by the closing down of the flying boat base at Wig Bay. I think that flying boats are now becoming a redundant industry, but there are, at Wig Bay large hangars and a  slipway and other very valuable facilities. Any firm wanting to build boats or anything of that kind would find in Stranraer many well-trained joiners and other tradesmen to carry on such an industry. The real problem at Stranraer is that of the great military port of Cairnryan. For many years Cairnryan has been used for dumping unserviceable Army ammunition, but I am afraid that this also is becoming a redundant industry. The War Office has advertised Cairnryan for sale and appointed a well-qualified firm of London agents to dispose of it. I am glad to say that there are several firms interested in the port and at least one of them would be able to give employment to no less than 200 men. Stranraer is a D.A.T.A.C. area. One knows that an industry coming to such an area is eligible for grants and loans and rent rebates if it is intended to start a factory. But it seems that rather different considerations apply when it is a port which is available and not a factory. In this case, we are to witness skilled negotiations by a London firm of estate agents to dispose of this port at the highest possible price. What is more, we are about to witness one of those fashionable package deals by which an industrialist coming to the port will be urged to take over a great deal of surplus W.D. equipment, much of which could not possibly be required, such as Army huts, engine sheds and things of that kind. When a firm of estate agents is instructed to act in such circumstances, it should also take into account the value of finding employment for 200 men, which might well amount to as much as £500,000. In such a deal as this, any firm wishing to start a bona fide factory would have only a certain amount of capital available, and, therefore, in such an auction it is bound to be the firm wishing to dismantle the whole place which would be able to make the highest bid. I asked my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland to take up this matter at the highest level possible and to see that Cairnryan and Stranraer are treated like any other D.A.T.A.C. area. If an English firm of industrialists proposed to come to Stranraer to start a factory, a red carpet would be laid down by the Board of Trade and the firm would be asked what it wanted. It would be offered   loans and possibly grants, and it would be sold only what it actually required. The rest of the equipment would be sold separately for scrap. There is also the question of the Glasgow overspill. Stranraer has entered into an agreement with Glasgow regarding overspill, and we are wondering what sort of industry we shall get to keep the people employed. I know that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State is very interested in shipping, and I suggest that he should overspill some shipping to Stranraer. After all, we have there a port big enough to take a battleship at low tide. We have very good railway communications with London and Glasgow, and there is an excellent labour force available. What is more, Cairnryan is the only big port between the Mersey and the Clyde and, therefore, is of considerable strategic importance to the nation. It would be a pity if this great port were abandoned and allowed to rust away. I wish also to refer to a town at the other end of my constituency, that is, Dalbeattie, near Dumfries. Dalbeattie is a small town in most beautiful surroundings. Hon. Members who have seen pictures in the Scotsman today of Kippford will agree about what a beautiful area it is. Dalbeattie has an industrial background. It has a textile works and its people are experienced in papermaking, woodworking and granite quarrying. Owing to the closing down of the nearby Admiralty depot, there is unemployment in the town. A rather strange thing in Galloway is that it is the Army which runs the port, the Royal Air Force which runs the seaside bases and the Admiralty which runs the inland ammunition dump. The Admiralty depot would make an excellent site for a new industry. Unfortunately, Dalbeattie cannot be scheduled as a D.A.T.A.C. area because figures of the unemployment population are not available. The local Ministry of Labour and National Service office covers half the Stewarty of Kirkcudbright. It is clear that unemployment in the burgh is fully as high as at Sanquhar, which has the good fortune to have a local Ministry office and there are figures available. The town of Douglas, Lanark is in the same boat. I think the Government should do something about these small places and not rely entirely on figures of unemployment which may or may not be available. In such a debate as this we are concerned more with the towns and cities, and particularly the industrial belt between Glasgow and Dundee in Central Scotland. But I feel that we should also have some regard to unemployment in the country. A hundred years ago, in every village and small town it would be possible to find a cobbler, a wheelwright, a blacksmith and a millwright, and probably also a tailor and a tweed mill. Now we buy our shoes mass-produced at Northampton. The wheelwright, millwright and blacksmith have been replaced by the agricultural engineer who comes out in his little van from the neighbouring town. The tailor and the tweed mill have gone and we buy our clothes from the multiple store in the nearest town. In effect, this means that the only employment in the country areas is in the agricultural industry. That is a satisfying employment and the industry is becoming ever more technical. But there is not much opportunity for female labour, nor is there much opportunity for better educated boys to get on and to improve themselves. We must try to get more industry into the country, and, if possible, within a half-hour bus ride from most of the villages. Even in Glasgow one is lucky to be able to get to work in less than half an hour. I am thinking in particular of small industries like Cree Mills, in Newton Stewart, and Solway Pre-cast Products in Creetown, which draw their labour from neighbouring villages. To see what can be done one has only to look across the Irish Straits from Stranraer and contemplate the huge B.T.H. factory at Larne in Northern Ireland, the sister port to Stranraer, the huge chemical works at Coleraine and the tobacco factory at Ballymena. I feel that we should pay more attention to this side of the problem, unless we want to see more rural depopulation. I was particularly sorry to read in the White Paper, Industry and Employment in Scotland and Scottish Roads Report, 1958, that there was no reference at all to Galloway until paragraph 237, where it is catalogued that another enterprise, the Silver City Airways ferry to the Isle of Man and Ireland, has closed down. When a ferry boat in the Highlands has seats which are not comfortable enough, the protests of Dame Flora McLeod are   heard right round the United Kingdom. Dame Flora McLeod is a very distinguished Scots woman and deserves to be listened to. But I am very sorry to see that this ferry service has been withdrawn with no protest at all. I hope that next year we shall see more attention being paid to Galloway in the White Paper. Before I sit down, I should like to say something about what I consider should be done about Scotland. First, the problem in England and Scotland is rather different. In England it is a question of distributing industries from areas where there is too much industry, such as the Midlands and London, to areas where there is not enough industry, such as Lancashire. In Scotland, there is not one area of over-full employment. For example, the Glasgow overspill is a problem of population and not of redistributing industry. The first thing I should like to see is the whole of Scotland scheduled as a development area. After all, unemployment in Scotland as a whole is over 4 per cent. I do not think that my suggestion would attract a single new industry to Scotland, but it would enable special Scottish subsidies to be given separate from the rest of the United Kingdom. For example, I should like to see factory rents reduced. In Northern Ireland, factory rents are about 9d. per sq. ft. In Scotland, they average between 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per sq. ft. Taking into account the disadvantage of distance, factory rents in Scotland should be reduced to about 1s. 3d. per sq. ft. I should also like to see an increased investment allowance for industries in Scotland, in addition to the existing capital investment allowances. This is quite feasible, because, after all, we had such an allowance in 1955. Both these would be administratively feasible, but they are subsidies of a capital nature. The manufacturer coming to Scotland looks, first, at his cost accounting. If he is provided with a factory rent and rate free in a remote area, he still cannot make it pay unless his costs are right. For that reason, I should like to see further subsidies of an income nature. I should like to see a subsidy on transport. I know that a flat rate for transport or ""an accentuated taper"", as  I think it is called in technical language, is not very easy to administer, but manufacturers could be given a subsidy of about 25 per cent. of their transport bills. That again is feasible, and it was done at the time of the big wind blow in the Highlands in 1953 in order to get the timber away. It could be done again. Another subsidy, or an alternative subsidy, which I should like to see is a subsidy on fuel—electric power, oil and coal. This is feasible, because it is being administered now in Northern Ireland. One of the advantages is that, by having a subsidy on coal, but not having the same subsidy on oil, the coal industry could be encouraged in Scotland. An industrialist is just the same as any other member of the public. If he is offered something for nothing, it is very difficult for him not to accept it. Such a subsidy would increase the amount of traffic going on the railways. It would also increase the amount of coal used. I must thank hon. Members for their indulgence in listening to me putting things right in Scotland in ten minutes, but before I sit down I should like to pay a tribute to the late Member for Galloway, Mr. Jackie Mackie. He represented Galloway for an unbroken spell of twenty-seven years. This was really his life. He loved Galloway and he knew thousands of his constituents by name. He also loved the House and was greatly loved here. Above all, he was a good House of Commons man. I hope that I also may in due course learn to carry on the great tradition of Mr. Mackie.
