gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is only my reliance upon the traditional tolerance of this House which emboldens me to address it at this early stage in our deliberations. I had hoped that the first subject I would have had the privilege of raising in this House, coming from a borough which has lost 6,000 houses through enemy action, would have been the housing problem, and I would have liked to have joined with the hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. G. Thomas) in his plea for some special assistance for these heavily hit areas. But I do not want to be pulled up for being out of Order, and having, through that subter-  fuge and your kindness, Mr. Speaker, at any rate been able to make housing the first subject I have mentioned in the House, perhaps I may be permitted to say a few words, constructive, I hope, in regard to this question of the United Nations Charter. I was very interested in the comments made by the Prime Minister about the International Labour Organisation, and I am not at all satisfied with the position of the I.L.O. vis-à-vis the new United Nations organisation. The right hon. Gentleman the Foreign Secretary the other day, addressing the Executive Committee of the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations, now meeting in London, paid a tribute to the I.L.O. I would like to read it. He said: You know that all British Governments, irrespective of politics, have consistently and strongly supported the I.L.O. in that great work which it has carried on to the benefit of workers all over the world during the last 25 years, work which we all hope it will continue to expand and develop. I believe too that the economic and political council,""— that is, of the U.N.O.— in association with specialised agencies such as the I.L.O., the F.A.O.""— that is, the Food and Agricultural Organisation— and others, will become the focus of the economic activities of the United Nations Organisation. The Economic and Social Council will formulate policy and ideas. The I.L.O. is the valued instrument system for transmuting many of those ideas into actual working practice. When I examine the Charter, which I hope we are going to ratify unanimously, I find, as far as I can understand the relationship of the I.L.O. to it, that it becomes a specialised agency under Article 57. In Chapter 3, Article 7, there are certain organisations which are called principal organisations. They include the Security Council, the International Court of Justice, the Economic and Social Council, and the Trusteeship Council. I am rather apprehensive that that places the I.L.O. in a relatively worse position in relation to the International Court of Justice, for example, than that in which it found itself within the League of Nations Organisation. In view of the universal approval of the work of the International Labour Organisation, I do not think it is good enough that the I.L.O. should be relegated to what is called one of those specialised agencies. It should be raised at the earliest possible moment to the position of one of the principal organs   of the United Nations Organisation. At the moment the I.L.O. is in a most unfortunate position. It belongs to nobody. It is really a part of what is almost the non-existent League of Nations. That is where it gets its finance. It is suspended, like Mahomet's coffin, between heaven and earth. Surely, for reasons of tidiness or businesslike methods, we ought to place the I.L.O. on a firmer footing than it has at the present time. It is my humble suggestion that it might be placed in its proper perspective within the organisation of the United Nations Organisation. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) paid tribute to the fact that the United States of America were the hosts of the Conference which set up this organisation. I would like to feel that, having given unanimous ratification to this Charter, this country should have the honour of being the permanent host of the headquarters of this organisation. I do not know where it is going to be situated. Some people say it cannot be at Geneva, though for the life of me I do not know why. If it cannot be at Geneva, is it not possible, and would it note a tremendous honour to this country, and a tremendous advantage, incidentally, to have the headquarters of the U.N.O. in Great Britain? Another suggestion I would make is in regard to the General Assembly. I notice that the National Delegations to the General Assembly have been raised from the original number of three per country to five per country. My suggestion is that perhaps that might give us an opportunity of including in our national delegation something that would be in the nature of the tripartite system of delegation which has been so successful in the I.L.O. If we had three Government delegates, as originally suggested, and two others representing other national interests, I believe that that would be all to the good, and it would be just as successful in the United Nations Assembly, as it has been for many years in the I.L.O. Coming to Chapter 12 on Trustee Territories, I would suggest, in regard to the very notable clause which enables territories to be voluntarily placed under the trusteeship system by the Powers that, for the moment, are looking after them, that there is a wonderful opportunity for  this country to make a gesture to the world. In looking through the articles which govern what we used to call mandated territories, and which in future are to be known as Trustee Territories, I suppose that every Member of the House would claim that the principles therein contained are just the principles upon which we govern our Crown Colonies and other similar parts of the British Empire. If that is so, why not make the gesture of voluntarily placing some at any rate of those parts of the British Empire under this new trusteeship scheme? That gesture would be appreciated; it would be an example to the world and would be of great advantage to the British Empire. Another part of this trusteeship matter in which I am particularly interested is the question of Palestine. I do not want to flog this question, because I know the difficulty of the Prime Minister. He told us to-day—and I appreciate it—that the Government have only been in office for a very short time, and are not yet in a position to make a public statement of policy on this matter. I am content so long as the Prime Minister, if he possibly can, will indicate, publicly, that this matter is under very active consideration, that, for example, the decisions of the recent world Zionist Congress are before the Government, and that a statement will be issued very shortly, even if it is only on the humanitarian aspect so ably and eloquently put by the hon. Lady the Member for the Combined English Universities (Miss Rathbone) in the Debate on the Address. My hon. Friend the Member for West Leicester (Mr. Janner) spoke very feelingly as a Jew. May I explain, not by way of apology but just by way of explanation, that I am not a Jew? I am the next best thing, as a member of the Scottish army of occupation in London. Perhaps it is all to the good that a non-Jewish voice should be raised in this humanitarian cause, urging that perhaps this is another opportunity for the Government not to indicate policy—I am not asking for that—but to indicate in a sympathetic way that they have the matter before them and will issue a statement at the earliest possible moment. Every Member of the House has been sent a pamphlet called ""Nowhere to lay their heads."" I hope hon. Members have read it. It must appeal to the conscience of everyone. If   we are sincere in our efforts to give the victims of the war real freedom from fear, we have to get this thing straight, and we cannot be content while we have it on our conscience, as a mandatory Power, that at the moment Palestine is being governed according to the White Paper of 1939, which has never had the assent of the Mandates Commission of the League, and indeed, I believe, was rejected by that Commission. We cannot be satisfied while that remains the position. Finally, I want to mention a matter which formed the peroration of the speeches of both the Prime Minister and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington, as indeed it must be the conclusion of everyone who discusses this matter. That is, as was so eloquently put by one hon. Member a few minutes ago, that it is not the wording of the Charter with which we should be most concerned, but the spirit of the Charter. That is the thing that will matter. References have been made to the so-called failure of the League of Nations. I am an unrepentant admirer of the old League of Nations, and whilst I appreciate everything the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington said about the way it was handicapped by the United States of America not being a member, and by all the other handicaps; whilst I appreciate the fact that we have 20 years' experience behind us and improvements have been embodied in this new Charter, I would say there was another reason for the so-called failure of the old League of Nations, and that was that it never had a chance. It never had a chance in this country because of the very unfair attacks made consistently upon it by certain sections of the Press, and it never had a chance at Geneva because the member States of the League were mostly determined that it should not work, and membership in that spirit guaranteed that it would not work; so when it came to the pinch, of course, it did not work mainly for that reason. How, therefore, can we guarantee that it is going to work any better this time? Surely we have the great lesson of the second world war behind us. We have also the implications of the atomic bomb, which has been mentioned so often that I will not say any more about it. But perhaps it is not sufficient to say that it  will be to our interests to see that it works this time. Cannot we put the plea on a higher plane than that? Is it not our bounden duty to civilisation? Is it not a challenge to us, after all those years of civilisation, that this time we must make it work? We have to attune our own consciences to see that it does work—because it will mean sacrifices for this country as well as for other countries. We must indeed have some kind of universal moral rearmament so that each of us individually will see that each Government individually enters into membership of the United Nations Organisation determined that this time we will breathe some real life into this Charter of the United Nations Organisation so that it can hold the ring while we build a better world.
