gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In accordance with the custom of the House I have to do two things: first, to ask for the indulgence of the House; second, to declare my interest. With regard to the first, I should say that I have waited some time before making this effort. The people whom I have the honour to represent are themselves patient, and I think they would wish that patience to be used in order that I might reserve the facilities afforded to a maiden speaker for a subject in which they have some special interest. May I now declare my own interest? I understand that is the custom in the House, though it is very seldom necessary for an hon. Member on this side of the House to declare an interest. I have a financial interest in an electrical undertaking. Not a large interest, it is true, but an interest similar to that held by every other inhabitant of West Ham: together we own, via the municipal authority, an electrical undertaking which is the envy of less fortunate areas. Perhaps I might be excused if I mount the parochial platform for a little while, because the story of West Ham is, in fact, the story of all other municipal undertakings, to the same or perhaps to a lesser degree. As that undertaking is affected by this Bill, we should know something of what the undertaking in fact is, and how it will be affected by this Bill. We have a generating station, now approaching 50 years of age. Yet, if I might use the expression, it is growing  younger every day. At the present time there are extensions, alterations and additions which have as their objective the production of 180,000 kilowatts: that, in terms perhaps more acceptable to a layman like myself, means 250,000 horsepower. That is the intention of the local authority so far as future generating is concerned—no mean objective. Allied to this undertaking is the supply side. True, there have been difficulties in recent years due to damage by the blitz and the usual war difficulties. I give as an instance the loss of one-third of the houses and, in consequence, their domestic load. There has been the total destruction of many factories and damage to others and, in addition, the interruption that normally comes because of war damage. The loyalty of the local residents to the Minister of Fuel in his demands has resulted in a reduction of their local consumption requirements. These, and many other factors, have reduced the load below what it normally would be, and yet today the output of that undertaking is in the order of 200 million units a year. That is no mere bagatelle. I may add that the revenue may be taken as some indication of the public service of the undertaking, for it is as low as that of any anywhere in the country, the revenue is £1,000,000 a year. I have given that thumbnail sketch of the undertaking because one can anticipate the nervousness with which most shareholders in undertakings of this kind may look at this Bill. How do the people of West Ham look at it? We have invested a good deal of money in this undertaking. It represents large capital assets. I think the Minister himself referred to the large amount of capital needed to build a generating station. He might have referred also to the supply equipment—cables, feeders, and so on. The size of such an undertaking means that there must be large capital assets. According to the Bill, we are asked to throw these capital assets into the lap of the nation. These large capital assets we are asked to share with some backward area, that may be backward without being poor; perhaps, a rich backward area like Westminster. We are asked to share these capital assets with those other localities, even while we delve into our pockets to find the wherewithal to pay railway shareholders and colliery owners.   We are asked to share our civic pride with places where social service is hardly known. We are asked all this in order that electricity may be extended into every home, every workshop, and every factory in the country. We have always preached the extension of public services to the widest possible extent, owing to the influence of such people as Keir Hardie. We have consistently voted Labour, and Members of the House will recognise that West Ham has always been safe for Labour. Now that the point of view expressed on the platform—our beliefs—are being put to the test, what are West Ham going to do? They are asked to part with these capital assets, and for nothing in return, except the good will of the rest of the community. I am proud to say that the people of West Ham, through their representatives on the local authority, have approved in principle the terms of the Bill, and are prepared to back the Minister in his efforts. I would not have it said, though, that that means we have no criticism to offer. This Bill is the latest child of the Front Bench, and it is a lusty infant. but, perhaps, by some small effort of ours, through our Parliamentary plastic surgery, we may make it even more attractive. If I may make a criticism, I would first say that there is no court of appeal here. I think that that is a valid point. If there should be a difference of opinion within the industry, or between the industry and some allied industry, the only court of appeal that there may be is to consist of the officials, or much the same officials, who made the original decisions. I suggest that some independent tribunal might be of use. The Minister referred to the Clause dealing with employees. He may feel entirely satisfied with it; but we must remember that we owe so much to our employees, and that, after all, we are transferring, not only our capital assets, but the employees, too, who have served us many years, and without whom we should have no undertaking. Whatever affiliations I have, whatever promises may be made, I should not vote for this Bill unless I thought that the interests of those men, their prospects of promotion, their prospects of a rise in their standard of living, were better under the new Authority than they are under the existing one.  If there is any doubt on this point I should like the Minister to say so. One further criticism of the Bill I may make is this. There are about 70 references in the Bill to the power of the Minister to intervene. I do not think that it can surely be intended that the Minister should intervene in all these cases. But I should like to know whether this does mean the Minister or the Ministry. It is right and proper, of course, that the Minister should have power to intervene. powers to effect policy, and that he should be able to answer effectively to this House. But it is hardly right that some subordinate at the Ministry should have authority to interfere with and to frustrate the efforts of the individuals, the technically competent individuals, trying to provide the service lower down the scale. I think the Minister might dispense with some of these powers to his advantage and to the advantage of the new undertaking. I believe in the devolution of power to the utmost possible extent commensurate with effective co-ordination. I believe it is essential. I believe that in our small way we have locally practised that devolution. We like the individual to be trusted to do a job without too much interference. That way we get service. Let me refer to another aspect of the Bill, the consultative committees: I think the Minister referred to the London area as a jigsaw puzzle. There is to be one consultative committee to cover one huge area. It does occur to me that in such an event the committee are either going to be overwhelmed with work or may have some difficulty in carrying out their task. In practice, probably, the task would fall to district officers in a great measure, and I feel that these district officers might have the assistance of district committees. I notice the Minister nods his head. I am glad, indeed, he concedes that point, because I believe there is a weakness in that part of the Bill, in that contact with the consumers, with the public generally, is only at consultative council level. I do not want to take too long or to take advantage of the indulgence of the House. I make these criticisms not with any idea of wrecking the Bill or opposing the Bill. We have the same objective as the Minister. I would say that he appears to me to be an extraordinarily self-sufficient person, but if by chance he   needs support, if by chance he needs loyal co-operation, if by chance he needs any of the wisdom that comes from practical experience in operating public services such as this, he can turn with confidence to West Ham.
