gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
After what appears to me a very considerable time, I now ask for the courtesy of the House in rising to address it for the first time. I have never yet been struck by the brevity of the speeches, but nevertheless I hope to learn by experience, and I myself intend to set a good example. I regret that my first speech in this House should be one of opposition to a Government of whose record I am very proud. I say this after nearly 30 years' experience in the Socialist movement. During the whole of my activities I never expected that I would ever enter this House as a Member. I was very happy indeed to expound the principles and policy of the Socialist movement, and that gave me the satisfaction I desired. I do not intend to get engaged in controversy, but I would say that in this Labour movement of ours at the moment we have so many military experts that I wonder, sometimes, at whose feet they learned their Socialism. Nevertheless, it takes all sorts to make a world, and we are very happy that we have that diverse opinion in our ranks. I never believed that it would fall to the lot of the Labour Government to introduce compulsory military service, and even if I had, I should still have   retained my faith that a Socialist Government was a natural development out of the awful conditions under which our people were living. But I would have fought the idea, and I would have hoped that I should have been able to defeat it inside our own conferences and within our own ranks. The position, however, was that at all times our party was opposed to the idea of compulsory military service. Therefore, it was not necessary to fight it inside our own party machinery. I went to the electorate upon the basis of ""Let us face the future."" I have searched it since that time, and I cannot find any reference in it to the subject matter of this Bill. If there had been a direct or an indirect reference to it, it may be that I should have had a fairly clear conscience in my attitude to it, but there was nothing in it. So far as I am concerned, I am not prepared to support the Government in the imposition of this thing on our people, when we have no authority so to do. All of us on this side of the House were expounding to the electorate in 1945 the necessity for the whole of our people accepting a greater measure of responsibility towards the community. Ours was not only a party policy; ours was not only a party programme; ours was an appeal to the people to accept the view that a Socialist Government would inaugurate a new way of life. We were desirous of instilling in the minds of the people that there was a necessity for an alteration of the relationship of man to man, that we wanted greater freedom of the individual, that we wanted the people to express themselves. Economic conditions under which they were living, were such that there could be no expression of individuality. In my view, the Socialist movement secured its greatest support and its most sound allegiance from people who believed that we had something to offer more than a mere political programme. Therefore, I am not one of those who believe that we are here solely because the people desired us to fill their bellies. I believe the support of our movement is based upon something deeper and stronger than that. What are we doing? We are throwing it all to the wind in this proposal, which is now before the House. I hasten to assure the House that there are many of us on this side of the House. who,  because we believed in these things, have suffered great difficulties and have lost our employment, with consequent suffering and misery, over a number of years. But we went on because we believed in it. We went on, not to come into this House and to pass Measures which will decide the conditions of people in the Armed Forces of the Crown. To those of my hon. Friends who are so keen to be participants in the glory of this military machine, I would say that I wonder what they are doing here, telling other people to do it. If there are any strictures implied, in the remarks I am making, upon the sponsors of the Bill, let me hasten to say that I am in no way questioning the integrity of the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour or his colleagues, for whom I have the greatest respect. I believe that they in their particular spheres believe that they are pursuing the Socialist ideal, an ideal which I also hold. I am not questioning their sincerity, but I believe that they are being seriously misguided and that they are taking an easy path to what they think is an effective course for the Armed Forces of the country. I believe that the reaction of our people will be such that this Measure will defeat its own object. I am aware—and I have listened to the speeches and references by hon. Members regarding this—of the great recruiting agent for the Armed Forces of the Crown, namely, unemployment. The pay of the Armed Forces of the Crown was commensurate with the regard that hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and their colleagues, who were in control of the Government of this country, had for them. The pay which they received was indicative of the regard that their masters at that particular time had for them. Therefore, as unemployment was the best recruiting agent, we obviously cannot expect, with an enlightened Government, of which I am proud, to have that recruiting agent in the future. What does that involve? When we are discussing the question of occupations, such as coal mining, where conditions are arduous and dirty, what do we do? We say that it is necessary, because of the arduous nature of the occupation, because of the fact that men will not go into this particular industry, to offer inducements over those prevailing in other particular industries. I believe that this Government and this   country will eventually have to face the fact that the most important people in the country are those who do the dirty work, and that the clean collar brigade will, some time, have to be relegated in relation to the position of people who do the dirty work. These will have to get better recompense in many ways than those who do less arduous and dirty work. I return to my argument about the Armed Forces. I am no pacifist. I was in the 1914–18 war as a member of the Royal Navy, and I experienced the comradeship of that association. Since that time I have been a member of a war pensions committee and have seen some of the results of what is done by the people who manipulated the situation in 1914. I have never subscribed to the pacifist school of thought. I would say that in considering that we cannot get recruits into the Armed Forces of the Crown, one has to appreciate the fact that to war and the war machine, we cannot apply logic. If we want people trained in the art of killing, although we say that it is purely defensive work and that it is designed to prevent the other fellow killing the man who is being trained, if we want people to go into that particular profession, we shall have to pay them something which is commensurate with the task they are being asked to undertake. My constitutents in South Hackney—and we have had some famous men in South Hackney, and some who probably could not make that claim—are typical ordinary, common or garden workpeople. I am continually getting letters from my constituents complaining of a feeling of inertia, boredom and frustration. They are from constituents who are in the Forces, and who want to get out. They are in the Forces, with nothing to do, and, they want to get out, and take their place in the various branches of industrial life. I have been told that in one depot of the Royal Navy, there are thousands of men doing nothing—with no duties to perform. One man, in particular, wants to get out, and he is told that he must pay £24 to get out of the Service where he is doing nothing. He wants to get back into industry, and at the same time industry is crying out for his capacity to produce. On these grounds, I am opposed to this Measure. I happen to be chairman of a juvenile employment committee, and for some considerable time it has been our task to attempt to get these lads to enter  employment, where they can be apprenticed to a job, instead of taking blind-alley occupations which might give them higher wages at a particular time. In the course of the work of this Committee we interview the lads and their parents. We endeavour to impress upon both the lads and the parents the necessity to have the boys fitted as craftsmen and technicians. Ever since the Gracious Speech there has been a falling off in the usefulness of this work. We are inevitably met by parents saying, ""Why should we bother? They have to go into the Army very shortly."" I listened very carefully to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour and I realise that certain measures of protection are given to the apprentices. Here let me say that probably I have an interest. I have three sons, but I am not speaking in this matter because I have any fear of them going into the Services. As a matter of fact, I believe that, politically, they are Tory. That is their business and not mine. It may be that as they grow older they may get some sense and I may get some more supporters—but that is by the way. I know that, so far as this employment committee is concerned, it is very difficult for us to do our job in the proper manner and to persuade these lads to go into proper industry and trade. We are now faced with an absolute lack of belief that proper skilled occupation can be made available to these young people because of this Measure. I conclude by saying that the matters which the Minister has indicated are purely expedients. It is the principle to which I am opposed. I do not believe that any Government, without a mandate from the people to do so, should impose this shackle of totalitarianism upon the country. I say, quite definitely, that when we were asking for the support of the electorate we urged that a Socialist Government would deal with the political, economic and social conditions of the people. In the economic and political fields this Government are fulfilling their promises and doing the job well. In this matter of the National Service Bill there is retrogression. I appeal to the Government to think again about the whole matter. I shall, with a very sore heart, go into the Lobby against the Government tonight.
