gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful that I have been able to catch your eye this evening, Mr. Speaker, I hoped originally to speak on matters in connection with the constituency I have the privilege of representing. Stretford, as as many hon. Members are aware, is a large industrial area, with perhaps the largest concentration of industry in the country, and I felt it incumbent upon me originally to speak in connection with that industry. But the fact is, that I have been stirred, stimulated or goaded perhaps, by the speech made by the right hon. Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) last Thursday, and by the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) to-day, to enter the foreign arena. I would say to hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite that I ascribe to them all the qualities of the human race, as I do to the Labour Party and to the public, but I regret that they have been so conditioned that they cannot think along the lines to which, in my opinion, their thoughts ought to be directed—along the lines of a greater sense of conscience and humanitarianism. Accordingly, we find their views are conditioned by their environment and upbringing, and I am afraid I detected, in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition, a note, perhaps   unintentional, of anti-Soviet bias, which is rather alarming. Now the Leader of the Opposition is developing the propensity, an ambidextrous one, of lavishing praise on the Soviet Union with one hand and endeavouring to deliver a left hook—or an extreme right hook—with the other. The right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington to-day, in outlining what in his view is the reason for the failure of the League of Nations, made, I think, a wrong analysis, but an analysis which, in his position, he cannot possibly help. He ascribed the main reason for the failure of the League of Nations to the fact that it was not universally constituted—that certain countries had kept out. That was not the real reason for the failure of the League of Nations. I would refer the Opposition to the country, which has kept a very close watch on foreign affairs. At the recent General Election, our major programme was ostensibly concerned with domestic matters, but in the background was an overriding consideration of foreign affairs, because the public has been largely concerned with foreign affairs ever since the end of the last war. At the moment a review of foreign affairs in retrospect may not be entirely out of place. I have with me a book written by my hon. Friend the Member for Gates head (Mr. Zilliacus) from which I shall quote a passage in regard to the anti-Soviet bias, which was one of the prime factors in the failure of the functioning of the League of Nations. This indicates, in my opinion, the keynote of the policy motivating the Foreign Office ever since the end of the last war. In December, 1917, nearly six weeks after the Russian revolution had taken place—it was a violent revolution in accordance with their own genius, just as we have achieved a constitutional social revolution recently in this country—Mr. Balfour, then Foreign Secretary, sent to the French Government a Memorandum. The first main proposals of the Memorandum was: We should represent to the Bolsheviks that we have no desire to take part in any way in the internal politics of Russia, and that any idea that we favour a counter-revolution is a profound mistake. Such a policy might be attractive to the autocratic government of Germany and Austria, but not to the Western governments or America.  The second was: Money to reorganise the Ukraine and pay the Cossacks and to subsidise the Russians…Besides finance it is important to have agents and officers to advise and support the provincial governments and their armies. It is essential this be done as quietly as possible, so as to avoid the imputation as far—as far as we can—that we are preparing to make war on Russia. It will be recognised how difficult it is for me to apologise for being controversial, because it is impossible to distinguish between that which is controversial and that which is true. That anti-Soviet bias was maintained in the succeeding years. In July, 1920, the late Lord Lloyd-George hinted at possible war with the Soviet Union, and in August, 1920, Lord Curzon, then Foreign Secretary, sent a note to the Soviet Union threatening war if they did not stop their advance in resistance to the invading Polish army. I shall not attempt to recapitulate to-night the series of tragic events which developed from that abysmal policy, the mainstay of which was the anti-Soviet bias. We have seen all too readily the train, the advent of Hitler, the rise of Fascism elsewhere, economic friction, and starvation at home, and meanwhile appeasement abroad and the up building of the Fascist dictatorships, which ultimately led us to war. I maintain that if we are to consider for a moment the basis on which the San Francisco Charter which we are discussing to-night is founded, it is exactly the same policy of collective security which was the foundation of the League of Nations 27 years ago. But unfortunately we are implementing or ratifying the San Francisco Charter 27 years too late. Had we been a little more broad minded in those years, had we maintained an outlook commensurate with our responsibility there would have been no war, there would have been no need for the San Francisco Charter to-day. The failure of the League of Nations can also be ascribed to the fact that, on the one hand, America, because of her own insularity and the narrow-mindedness of her President in antagonising the opposition political party in his country, kept out of the League, and we lost there a tremendous opportunity. On the other hand, this country, because of its own prejudiced outlook, kept out a great Ally. To-day, there is a great opportunity. We have   within the framework of the San Francisco Charter, both the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.K. and an opportunity which we must seize with both hands. I would regret that, while we have prevented Spain joining the United Nations in ratifying that Charter—Spain, which has been responsible for some of the greatest evils that the world has ever known, the country in which many good honest citizens are still languishing in Fascist jails, which gave away information to the enemy during the war and which caused untold harm to our lads in convoy through ""Bomb Alley""—while Spain is kept out of the Charter, we have allowed the Argentine in. The Argentine is just as great a Fascist State as Spain or Portugal, and I regret that it was the pressure of the United States that enabled the Argentine to join the United Nations at San Francisco. It is impossible to discuss foreign affairs without reference to the atomic bomb. The two are inseparable. I think that to-day it is a truism to say that San Francisco and Potsdam are both out of date since the revelation of the atomic bomb and the menace that it connotes. Accordingly, I was amazed in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford last Thursday, to find him exulting in the fact that America is at the summit of the world with her monopoly in the production of the atomic bomb. The right hon. Gentleman went on to outline the position, saying that it will take three or four years for any other nation to catch up on the processes of production and in the equipment required for the manufacture of the atomic bomb, and we have the curious paradox of the Leader of the Opposition going on to say that he welcomed that three years' lag because it will enable the nations to try to remould the hearts of men. The Leader of the Opposition, not so long ago, was gibing at us as ""starry-eyed idealists and Utopians who want eventually to change and remould the hearts of men,"" and here he was talking of remoulding the hearts of men in three years. The other point must not be lost sight of cither. That is the point that, at the moment, the United States has got a monopoly of the atomic bomb. I think I am right in. saying that it is the wish of the majority of the Labour Party and  of the people of this country for the atomic bomb to come within the scope of international control. Are we to go on in an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion, because that is what the present conditions mean? We have this tremendous power, from the productive point of view, vested in America and to a lesser degree in ourselves. From whom are we withholding that invention? Not from Germany, nor from Italy, nor Japan, but from the Soviet Union. I submit to the House that there is one method by which international control of the atomic bomb could be hastened, and that would be if to-morrow the Soviet Union announced that they had developed an even greater atomic bomb or a similar device of greater potentialities for devastation. Then we would see the implementation of machinery for the international control of the atomic bomb and any other devices which perhaps at this moment are on the laboratory benches all over the world. I am reminded of the viewpoint of Conservative opinion as evidenced by an article by Major General Fuller, who is not a Socialist. This is what he said: Is not war killing itself through its own imperfection? Though I hope so I doubt, it, because the things which emerge from man's brains seldom change the evil in his heart. Therefore, I think that wars will continue for many years yet. There you have the opinion of an eminent military critic but not a Socialist military critic. My contention is that had that been the comment of a Socialist military critic he would have used words to this effect: Now the world has been confronted by this tremendous menace, we must sec to it that never again can war be possible. That is why I am unhappy about the vesting of the atomic bomb in the United States of America, because it: may be vested eventually in the resources of Wall Street and not in the people of America. There is another implication, quite distinct from the menace of atomic energy, and that is the benefit that such energy can bring to mankind. Who knows but that even now efforts are being made by certain commercial interests to capitalise and harness the production of those resources of atomic energy in the industrial field for their own purpose, in order to make a profit out of it? I say to the House that we must divorce ourselves from party shibboleths, forget whatever   traditions of party politics may exist, and try to realise our responsibilities to the world and to the future. It is a question of either Socialism or smash. I say to the Foreign Secretary, to whom we wish good luck in the great task which lies on his shoulders, that when he meets the Council of Foreign Ministers we hope he will develop the machinery necessary for the international control of the atomic bomb and any other devices which may be in the lockers of all the nations. In conclusion, I would say there has been comment about the Foreign Secretary being an unorthodox type. I remember that Arthur Henderson was an unorthodox type, but he was a very successful Foreign Secretary. If the orthodox types are of the character we have known before in this House and of the calibre of Sir John Simon, of Sir Samuel Hoare and Lord Halifax—if they are orthodox and have brought about orthodox consequences, the sooner we get unorthodox consequences from the Foreign Secretary the better for this country and the world at large.
