gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House in this my maiden speech, and I hope I shall be pardoned for introducing some personal notes and experiences. I have had the fortune to be an employer as well as an employee. I know what it was to be  sacked at 16 for helping to form a trade union and significantly, at the same time, on the same day, my father came out of work and we trudged the roads of the Colne Valley together looking for work. As an employer I can claim that I am speaking for my own employees, since they played no unimportant part in returning me at the by-election at Ashton-under-Lyne. It is because of a promise to them that I determined, if at all possible, to speak for them in this Debate for a few minutes. I realise that the legal aspect of this Bill is very important, but, to my mind, in spite of what the hon. Member for Rugby (Mr. W. J. Brown) has said, there has been a sense of unreality about the whole proceedings since this Debate was begun yesterday. It does not seem to bear any relation whatever to the way of life of the white-faced men and women who work in the cotton mills at Ashton-under-Lyne. In my opinion, the Act of 1927 was born in corruption. It has as its background the cessation of acceleration in trade, the dirty coat of finance which was trailed over my constituency and Lancashire, and also the fact that although manufacturers in Yorkshire made money during the war, they failed to put it back into their industries. They were stupified by the fact that acceleration had ceased and they did not know how to counter it except by the reduction of wages. It came to a head in 1927 by the passing of the Act, and in my particular industry it was not more than two or three years—in fact, in 1929—before it was taken advantage of, when the industry to which I belong—the woollen industry—was locked out. That lock-out carried on for many weeks and resulted in the reduction of wages throughout the whole length and breadth of that industry. I did not lock my men out but, instead, raised their wages, and I have never looked back, from that day to this. The reduction of wages was one of the prime features of the propaganda at that time, and it ran on into the years after the 'thirties. Apathy became the rule on the part of the workers. On the part of the employers there was fear of revolution which resulted at the time of Munich in members of the trade unions in Lancashire—married men with three, four and five children—working for 30s. a week, and on the employers' side there was the fear of losing their businesses. If it had   not been for this war, there is no question that 30 to 40 percent. of the wool trade would have been closed down. This war saved the wool trade. At the moment, there is a lot of talk with regard to cooperation in industry. I will not keep the House more than a few minutes, but there is one speech to which I would like to refer. It was delivered in Liverpool last week by Sir John Hobhouse, the manager of the Ocean Steamship Company, addressed to the Liverpool Economic and Statistical Society. Referring to the trade unions, he said they had enormous blocking powers without any real responsibility. He said their position was now secure and they would, he believed, use their great power for good. The ""Observer"" on 3rd February said:  New positive functions, instead of mainly defensive functions, must be found for the Unions if their resources and enthusiasm are to be fully enlisted on behalf of high output and prosperity in the exacting years ahead. There is no question, nobody knows what yardstick to apply to trade in the next five years. It will need in the coming years all the ingenuity and co-operation of every person, whether he is employed or an employer of labour, and this sort of argument which we have heard in the course of this Debate will do nothing towards helping it along. If we cannot have co-operation in industry we shall have death to industry in this country. I wish to appeal for a real united endeavour to put this Bill through. .I conclude by quoting a progenitor of mine who was a Chartist. He was a contemporary of Hardie, and O'Connor. He said, writing to the ""Star"":  Peace cannot be got between us by fine talk. You have to convince men they are having a fair, square deal and you cannot do that until you have created the right atmosphere. That is as true today as it was then, and we have an opportunity to help by passing this Bill.
