gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like other hon. Members, I must ask for the indulgence of the House when addressing it for the first time. It is true that I have opened my mouth on two previous occasions. The first time I answered one Question and the second time I answered two; but that experience gave me the uneasy feeling of a bather entering the sea by inches, and I was envious of those hon. Members who had been able to take the plunge on the first occasion. I am glad to be able to assure the hon. Member who initiated this Debate that the Government intend to be as cautious in spending foreign exchange upon the import of non-essentials as any citizen of Aberdeen could desire them to be. During the period of reconversion we have to receive some financial assistance from our Allies, but we do not intend to use that help for prodigal expenditure. I am not sure that  I would be prepared to adopt completely the attractive alliterative formula which the hon. Member suggested might be used, but I would gladly substitute for it the phrase, ""Food before films."" By every means in our power, restriction of imports as well as expansion of exports, we intend to hasten the coming of the day when our balance of payments will once more be in equilibrium and the need for special assistance disappear. Our dollar expenditure upon American films is undoubtedly larger than the nation can prudently afford, though it is not as much as some hon. Members seem to suppose. Remittances on this account before the war were estimated at about £7,000,000 annually. During the war they have been as follow: To October, 1940, £4·8 million; October, 1941, £5·7 million; October, 1942, £8·5 million; October, 1943, £26·5 million; October, 1944, £15·6 million; and for the nine months to July, 1945, £13·3 million. The reason for the sudden jump in 1943 is that before America entered the war part of the total royalties only was allowed to be transferred in dollars and the remainder was credited to blocked accounts. Those blocked accounts, less any amount spent in this country, were released for transfer after America entered the war. I can say at once that the blocked account method is one to which we should be sorry to have to revert. It means the piling up of debt which remains a burden even though payment be postponed. We much prefer to meet current liabilities as they arise. The increase in the figures, in spite of the sharp increase in Entertainment Duty over the same period, is conclusive proof that the great mass of the people derive real enjoyment from going to the pictures. A great industry employing many thousands of people caters for them. We should all regret if over-hasty steps were to produce chaos and distress, and deprive our people of the relaxation which is the counterpart of the great efforts, in the Forces, in the factories, in the transport services or in the mines, which it is still vitally necessary that they should make. For the moment it seems that the Government must always be advocating plain living and high thinking, but perhaps I might remind the House that the book which did most to build up the Labour Party in its younger days was called ""Merrie England."" We are not a Gov-   ernment of kill-joys. We have no wish to prevent people from going to the cinema, but we want them to receive good entertainment there. The obvious remedy for our difficulties, as all hon. Members who have taken part in the Debate have said, is to foster and develop in this country the production of high quality films which will not only give pleasure to our own people but will find a ready sale abroad, and be a worthy reflection of British life and culture—British life and culture, I would say to my hon. Friend the Member for West Fife (Mr. Gallacher) of all classes in this country. I welcome the general recognition which most hon. Members have expressed—
