gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing the House, I ask for the kind indulgence which is usually accorded to an hon. Member making his maiden speech. I would like to open my remarks by quoting some words of Wordsworth written on a very auspicious occasion in history: Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive, But to be young was very heaven! I feel the same this afternoon on the occasion of the Third Reading of this Bill. While I am not yet in ""the sear and yellow leaf"" of life, I have nearly 50 years of mining experience behind me. I went into the collieries in 1901, and have been attached to them ever since in practical, technical and administrative direction. With regard to the comments of the hon. and gallant Member for Fylde (Colonel Lancaster), I would point out that there are two sides to the question of discipline. For 12 years I have been a member of the arbitrators' court, and 75 per cent. of the disputes I have had to settle have not originated from the men's side. Having said that, I would like to remind the House that it is only by this Bill that, at last, the nation is facing up to its responsibilities as far as the mining world is concerned. Over 100 years ago Stevenson used these words: The Lord Chancellor sits on a Woolsack, which has long since ceased to he the staple commodity of England. Rather he should sit on a coalsack. In 1865, Dr. Holmes, having in mind the need of coal, said: If ever a Government is justified in exercising its authority between the interests—we may say the security—of the nation and the individual, it must be in instances where the good of the individual, the daily trespassing upon, the moral property of the country and the social and economic welfare of the community are concerned.  In 1865, Stanley Jevons said:  Coal, in truth, stands not beside, but entirely above all other commodities. It is the natural source of energy of the country, the universal aid, the factor in everything we do. With coal almost everything is possible; without it, we are thrown back on the laborious poverty of early times. All through the years, people have tried to draw the notice of Governments to the need for special attention to be given to coal and it would seem that Too years after Stevenson's exposition a Labour Government have at last had the opportunity. I have given some thought to this Bill. As other hon. Members have said on previous Bills, it is not perfect, but it is in the right direction. It is the one major stroke of policy which the mining industry has required for a long time, and that is why I strongly support it. I wish to draw attention to Clause 1, Subsection (2, c), which says: Producing, manufacturing, treating, rendering saleable, supplying and selling products of coal. I have had a very close contact with the coking industry as well as with the mining industry. It is a crime against science to use coal as a raw material. There are vast potentialities in the coking plants, and I am hoping that, with the passing of this Bill, a research department will be set up to work out the possibilities in coking plants, and so forth. I do not see many hon. Members of the fairer sex present this afternoon, but I am sure it would interest them to know that the aids to beauty which ladies use are derived from by-products of coal. Hon. Members who carry those little white pellets in their pockets with which to sweeten their tea may also be interested to know that they too are by-products of coal. I hope that, after the passing of this Bill, the Government will implement it to the fullest possible extent. We are told by statisticians that the burning of raw coal means that 200 to 500 tons of smoke dust fall annually per square mile. We are also told that the coal dust produced from factory and industrial chimneys amounts to 9,000,000 tons annually. The damage to property and crops is beyond computation. Subsection (2, d) deals with the producing or manufacturing of goods, and I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this aspect. Unfortunately, I suffered for   quite a while from miners' nystagmus, which is a most torturing disease. I would like the Mining Department or the Minister to set up a section to deal with miners' lamps. They are not mentioned in the Bill, but I would like the Minister to control their use. It is only by better lighting that we can get rid of this disease. With respect to safety, welfare and the question of psychology so far as the miner is concerned, I would like to give one or two quotations. There are about ten pits within a radius of eight miles of my home where, within the living memory of people today, there have been major disasters. In my own constituency there are over 5,000 colliery accidents a year. In my capacity as branch secretary at one colliery I dealt with no fewer than 10,000 accident claims during my term of office. While such things prevail, we are not going to have a very warm psychology towards the mining industry. During recent years there has been intensification in mining mechanisation. In some directions, there have been vast developments and it has been my privilege during the last two years to visit no fewer than 75 collieries in this country. Some of them are of first-class standard, but others are very out of date. Within a few months of coming to this House I, together with a colleague in the trade union world and two members of the Colliery Owners' Association, went to inspect a colliery. We saw men naked with the exception of loin cloths who were covered in sweat, and we had to agree that it was inhuman to ask men to work under such conditions. We closed that seam. Many collieries have built palatial offices, extended their coking and screening plants and brickyards, and spread out in other directions, but have done nothing to improve the miners' welfare. There are men in Yorkshire today who leave the pit and go home in exactly the same conditions as their fathers went home 75 years ago. We shall not get the proper psychology towards the mining industry while such conditions exist. I wish the Minister and the Parliamentary Secretary every success, and I hope that the House will not divide on this Bill today in spite of what the hon. and gallant Member for Fylde said.
