gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I trust that the House will forgive me if, on the occasion of my maiden speech, I do not follow the hon. Member for South Antrim (Professor Savory) and reply to his passionate defence of ""one man, two votes."" I have often wondered   why Members addressing the House for the first time should crave the indulgence of the House, but in my early days in Parliament I have realised just how vital that necessity is. I feel conscious not only of the fact that the fabric of this Parliament is history, but that many of the men and women who share my presence in the House are themselves the embodiment of living history. If I speak with lack of confidence and with some fear, it is because I have now the honour to belong to the House where still sits the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), under whose leadership Parliament and many people here guided this country in its struggle to preserve democracy, and also because I have the honour of being in the same House, and on the same side, as my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, under whose guidance Parliament is using this democracy to bring, at long last, social justice to our people. For those reasons, I crave the indulgence of the House this afternoon. I do not intend to deal with the weightier issues of this Debate, but to leave them to mightier men and confine my remarks to a narrow field and speak of what I know. Perhaps, as I develop in Parliamentary experience, I may follow the temptation of older Members to widen the range of my observations, but this evening I wish to speak on but one aspect of this Parliament. I believe it will be largely administrative rather than legislative, and I wish to call the attention of the House to two serious aspects in which we might improve and benefit the country. The first is the question of help to our blitzed towns. Although I speak of Southampton I am certain that what I say is also true of other blitzed towns. The town I have the honour to represent is perhaps the greatest passenger port of this country. It has great natural resources and its people are anxious that those should he developed to the full. It is the gateway to England and we are anxious that the people of this country shall help us to make that gateway worthy of the land which lies behind it. Southampton has a history which becomes more glorious the nearer one approaches the present day. In the First World War it was the key port to the Western Front. In the Second World War more than a million Americans found  their way through our town to battlefields in every corner of the old continents. Just before D-day its streets and its highways, its docks and waterways, were thronged with men and materials on their way to the invasion of Normandy. Greatest honour of all, and greatest sadness of all, Southampton was singled out by the Germans for exceedingly heavy air attacks. In that blitz Southampton lost many thousand homes, a quarter of its schools were damaged, and many of its churches, factories and shops suffered either complete or partial destruction. I sometimes feel that the rest of England is inclined to be not only a little forgetful of the heroism shown by the people of the blitzed towns during the days of the air raids, but a little unforgetful of the moral courage and grit of our people who try to build up those blitzed towns again under conditions of great difficulty in these post-war years. Whatever post-war problem this House discusses from time to time, usually that problem weighs most heavily on the blitzed towns. I am here today to plead for what I may call, as an analogy, Marshall Aid, in the lifetime of this Parliament, for the blitzed towns. To use Southampton as an illustration, during the war we lost £200,000 rateable value, but, with our depleted resources, we still have to maintain the same social services, the same administration; indeed, our civic expenses, because of the blitz, are higher, although our resources are less. During the war we had a kind of lend-lease from the British Government, who stabilised our rates. But after the war Southampton, like, probably, every other blitzed town, received a grant. It received in 1946–7, a grant of £200,000 towards its rates, and in 1947–8 a grant of £100,000, after which financial aid dwindled away until Southampton now bears the burden of its blitz alone. So grave are the economic problems which weigh on the blitzed towns that I feel that many of them, in trying to balance their local budgets, are gravely economising in vital matters and will find it impossible even to get back to the state in which they were before the first night of the major blitz. I also ask the Government and this Parliament to give special help to the blitzed town in its housing problem. We were fortunate in receiving a generous allocation of prefabricated houses, but now I ask for a more generous allocation   of building materials and building labour. We also ask that if we receive imported building labour the extra charges involved in subsistence for that extra labour should be borne by the country as a whole and not placed on the shoulders of the blitzed towns. In this Parliament, which will be largely administrative, I ask that the people of England should remember what they owe to the men and women of the blitzed towns. It is our proud boast that after this war we have not forgotten the ex-Service man; I hope that no Government will forget what it owes to the men who gave life or limb, health or sight, to preserve our freedom. In this same spirit. I ask the rest of the country to remember what it owes to the people of the blitzed towns and to help them with the heavy burdens they shoulder. I ask for a square deal from unblitzed Britain for blitzed Southampton. The other point I wish to make concerns our children. I also ask that in this Parliament we should make greater speed towards the implementation of the Education Act, 1944. I press the vital claims of the children in our infant and primary schools. I realise that in a couple of Parliaments we cannot make good the neglect and false economy which took place in the inter-war years in the replacement of primary schools, but reference has been made in the Gracious Speech to the importance of agriculture. If we are to have a healthy agriculture—a permanently healthy agriculture—we must provide for the children of farmworkers something a little nearer equality of opportunity in education than they have at present. I believe that a thousand pre-fabricated schools replacing the worst thousand village schools in Great Britain would be a real godsend and boon to the countryside, that they would show the farmworkers of England that we meant business and regarded them as key people in this vital economic struggle and want their children to have the same chances as the children of the towns. I suggest that in this Parliament we might consider the very heavy burdens which educational advance is placing on local authorities and that some easement might be given to local authorities and borne by the State. Many of us speak of equality of opportunity for our  children, but by no means have we yet secured equality of opportunity as between child and child. We are slowly, pitifully slowly in my view, advancing to that equality of opportunity. I see no reason why a Parliament which may be divided on major issues should not unite in speeding forward the work of bringing that equality to our children. As I have said on many occasions, I realise that this House is by no means entirely composed of Socialists but I would suggest that long years ago we in this country might well have been Socialists about our children, and that whatever differences may exist between man and man we should give to all children in this land the same opportunity to build up a healthy mind in a healthy body. I would urge this Parliament to push on rapidly with first-aid work in the improvement of our worst primary schools, starting perhaps with schools on the black list, turning to the blitzed towns and then to the industrial areas, where there are still schools which are plain, substantial buildings with enough ornamentation to distinguish them from prisons—that we give to our English children a feeling that in this Parliament their interests are paramount. I believe that if we do that we may still regard this Parliament, despite its unusual composition, as a worth-while Parliament for the children of our country. It has been said that what a good parent desires for his child so a good nation desires for all its children. It is with that thought in mind that I shall from time to time endeavour to address this House on the subject of our children and on the advance towards the ending of unequal privilege as between child and child.
