gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The indulgence of the Committee has been considerably drawn on this week, but I hope some small measure is still left for me, particularly as I have to follow the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Fuel and Power. I should like to say, with great respect, that I thought that he was on a rather sticky wicket. While on that subject, I am sustained slightly by the knowledge that hon. Members allow a maiden speaker to bowl a maiden over, however indifferent the initial deliveries may be. A point which I do not think has received sufficient attention in this Debate  is that of expenditure on local government. The Chancellor had something to say on the subject. He drew the attention of the Committee to the fact that the estimate of loans to local authorities during the past year was £220 million, but, in fact, as much as £272 million were taken by this source, at the favourable rate of 3 per cent. Then he went on to twit some local authorities that possibly they had drawn more from this source than they should have done. It is only fair to say that I am concerned with a local authority not very far from here which received a Ministry of Health circular which seemed a little bit like an invitation to a waltz with a charming lady with a tag of ""3 per cent."" round her neck. The alternative was that they might find a rather more ponderous partner with a tag labelled ""4 per cent."" It is, therefore, not unnatural that, having the interests of our ratepayers in mind, we should get this money as cheaply as possible. The Chancellor said, in his Budget speech:  As I pointed out last year, many of our social services are extending automatically, so that the cost increases every year, as, for instance, national insurance and education."" —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 18th April, 1950; Vol. 474, c. 61.] He was a little bit more specific on the subject of education a year ago, when he used these words: Education must become more and more costly as more of the promised reforms come into operation.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 6th April, 1949; Vol. 463, c. 2082.] That, indeed, is perfectly true. Some people are not aware that expenditure of local authorities today is very nearly equivalent to the whole of our Budget expenditure before the war. On the subject of loans to local authorities during the coming year, the Chancellor said:  We believe, however, that with the continued co-operation of the local authorities, the sum we intend to provide for the coming year of £279 million should suffice to meet all their needs.""—[OFFIciAL REPORT, 18th April, 1950; Vol. 474, c. 56.] In reply to a question by my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler), the Financial Secretary said that £220 million out of this £279 million would be allocated to housing. Like all hon. Members, I am delighted that there should be this increase in housing as, in my view, this is our   greatest human problem, but it leaves the relatively small amount of £59 million available for education and matters of that kind. The Chancellor calls for the co-operation of the local authorities. I am sure that he will get it. It is always. advisable to adopt an attitude of co-operation to the very senior partner in the business. I wish to refer to the revenue which we shall get from the central Government for our expenditure on education. It has gone up from £225 million to £243 million—an increase of about £17,500,000 to £18 million. This is, of course, a material increase, and there must be certain pressure for even more expenditure. I believe that in these matters there is room for economy. There must be a certain roof beyond which expenditure must not be allowed to rise. On that point I associate myself with the remarks of the hon. Member for Widnes (Mr. MacColl), that we local authorities are almost grown up. We hope that there will not be too much surveillance from the senior partner, because, in that way, we shall be able to avoid unnecessary delay and expense. I do not believe that people realise just how much there is of a two-edged weapon in these services of local authorities. We have not merely the loan charges to pay; in addition, we have the revenue costs. Roads are also referred to in the Budget. The amount that we have been able to spend on roads was cut last year. An additional sum of £1 million has been allocated from the central revenue for the year ahead. In my county we have to spend less on our roads than we spent before the war. Our experts tell us that the value of that expenditure in actual out-turn of work is one-third to one-quarter of what it was. It is the case that in most counties during the war there was heavy operational traffic. We must face these facts. These roads are a definite part of our capital equipment, and it is our capital equipment of that nature which is being run down. It is worth while noting, in passing, that the buoyance of the revenue partly came from Surtax and Death Duties which, it is suggested, come directly out of capital, whereas the more important revenues, such as Income Tax, were not up to estimates. I wonder whether, beneath  the surface there is not a good deal of erosion going on in the case of both private and public capital. While on the subject of roads, I should like to refer to the question of costs in the administrative county of Essex. I listened with great interest while the Parliamentary Secretary did his sums. No doubt we shall be able to study them in more detail over the week-end, but the solid fact remains that for the cars used by one county council the additional 9d. per gallon on petrol will involve an increased expenditure of £15,000 a year. We are not sure under which category we come in regard to the 331 per cent. tax on commercial vehicles, but a preliminary estimate of additional expenditure is in the neighbourhood of £5,000 a year for new vehicles. I did not get the figures per mile given by the Parliamentary Secretary, but of these splendid people—aldermen, councillors and, in addition, many of our county employees—hundreds use their own cars on public business. This point also applies to people in the Services. These people have allowances for the use of their cars, and it may be that we shall have pressure from them for an increased allowance in view of what has happened. All these matters together add to the administrative costs of our country. We have learned that the administrative costs of education have exactly doubled over a period of two years. Finally, I refer to a rather more human side of this Debate. I wonder whether in the welter of Surveys, figures and estimates we do not tend occasionally to lose sight of the facts of life—the human side. I sometimes wonder whether our psychology has not been a trifle pulverised by prognostications of different kinds, whether they be purple or merely pallid. I do not know, but we have built up a huge central and local government machine which tends sometimes to be our master rather than our servant. I sometimes picture the welfare State as an enormous basin in which we all stand round and mix, as it were, our Christmas puddings. We all push the mixture in, and somebody throws in a button or a sixpence or a ring, and we all stir, and then the whole thing is—I think this is the term—"" redistributed."" But how much, I wonder, is left behind on the edge of the basin—and on all the machinery and instruments used to stir   it up? I do not know—I hope I amwrong—but I wonder sometimes if we shall not all get fairer and fairer shares of less and less. The Chancellor referred to the fact that in the time of winter one must be careful not to use all the honey so carefully stored in the season of sunshine—but which, of course, has been removed from us in the first instance. I am one of those old-fasioned people who believe that honey—not a sort o. or nationalised honey—in our own larders is not only sweeter, but possibly even more securely kept. I wonder as I go about—I hope, again, that I am wrong here—whether all this policy of the Government is not, in a way, blunting the great virtues of our great nation, and whether our determination to stand firmly on our own leas, whether collectively or individually, is not being a trifle undermined. I trust not, hut, after everything has been said, it is our national character that is our real wealth and our chief asset. Let me, in thanking the Committee for its courtesy to me, ask that we remind ourselves that we should guard that with great care.
