gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My genuflection on this occasion to the traditional sentiments of trepidation and anxiety in making a maiden speech is not merely traditional. It is genuinely held. I should like to congratulate the hon. Member for Bedwellty (Mr. Kinnock) on an excellent maiden speech. My diffidence today arises from the fact that we are debating a matter on which there is a good deal of confusion and misjudgment that is not necessarily restricted to one side of the House. I am also conscious that I follow in my maiden speech not only those who have made such speeches in this Parliament but many distinguished Parliamentarians before me. Even the broadcasting media have paid tribute to the excellent standard of maiden speeches in this Parliament, which again increases my acute sense of anxiety. I am also anxious because I am conscious that as a newly-elected Member for Harrow, East I have the honour to represent a vitally important constituency, which is part of the London Borough of Harrow and is known by social scientists as a dormitory area. That is a neutral   phrase, but it really says nothing apart from being a descriptive label. In fact, it is a vital and lively constituency which is proud of its traditions, is part of the life of Middlesex, an area which is hopeful for the future. It has a lively social, political and religious life and its record in arts and sports is equal to that of any other community. Furthermore, it is renowned for the beauty of its green belt, I should be straying a little from the terms of the Motion if I were to enter too greatly into that matter, but that is also part and parcel of the general welfare of the community. I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Roebuck, who during the last Parliament represented Harrow, East with energy and skill. I hope that I shall learn from his record. I am grateful for this opportunity to address the House because in the social services my constituency has a record which is second to none. This applies to general services and in discretionary services in the community specifically designed to try to alleviate individual cases of need, hardship and distress. This underlines the basic philosophical divergence between both sides of the House on the practical ways to achieve certain goals about which there may be a great degree of general agreement. I do not accept the words in the Motion that … unrealisable election commitments … are likely to lead to damaging cuts in the social services"". There is something illogical in that phrase since if the commitments were unrealisable it is difficult to see how they would lead to damaging cuts in the social services. I do not believe this to be true, not only because of the record of the previous Conservative Administration and its relative success—and it is ""relative"" because it is largely a question of conflicting priorities—but because we on this side of the House will have a programme which will lead to success in the vital matter of providing social services. When the Motion talks about cuts we should bear in mind the hospital building programme which has taken place in the last five years as compared with what  happened under Conservative Administration. Taking the whole aggregate increase, this programme increased in percentage terms at a faster rate under the Conservatives than in the period which followed. The figures in money terms are 92 per cent. under the Conservatives as against 69 per cent. under the previous Government. The difference is more marked when one allows for inflation. The Conservative Party has shown and will show that we have the determination to attach a high priority to the social services and to achieving practical success in attaining those objects. A number of speakers have referred to a faster rate of growth which is implicit in everything we say. This is not a controversial matter. On the other hand, the matter of how this is to be achieved is controversial as will no doubt be shown in succeeding debates. The next task for the Government, which is a central matter in the reform of social spending in the National Health Service, is in the reshuffling of priorities of receipts and the maximising of results. This will depend on fundamental changes in the way in which receipts and spending are organised and constructed. The National Health Service itself in terms of structure of receipts and spending will probably be little changed. There is some difficulty in determining how people should pay individually within the context of the Service. None the less, the important realities of anything that we in this House discuss pertaining to the social services, today and on other occasions, must be as follows. Unfortunately, affluence has not meant an inexorable increase in the quality of the services provided. Unfortunately, there is not only the evidence of C.P.A.G. but other expert judgments that priority categories of need have not kept pace. I would include in all the services that people receive as individuals or groups in any measurable determination of poverty or affluence also the services which they receive collectively or individually from the National Health Service. That is a moot point in any major debate on the subject. Next, the National Health Service is under considerable strain. That is no shame on the operatives in the Service. I am   sure that we all wish to pay tribute to them. It is because of the last proposition, that the demand intrinsically for these services is not limited but that resources are. Coming back to one local item, I am proud to be able to mention Northwick Park Hospital, which is in the region in which Harrow, East and the Borough of Harrow are included. It is a new specialist and general hospital which is at present in phase 1 of its development. It is expected to be completed by 1974. It will be a striking achievement and a very useful addition to the general and specialist services in the North-West London area. It will be a hospital primarily serving Harrow, Brent and Ealing, but also with a national element, combined with the Medical Research Council, into specialist diagnostic and investigatory services of all kinds. By the end of this year, there will be in the hospital 204 local beds and 60 national beds. By November there will already be some out-patient services operating, and some supporting diagnostic services. Local general practitioner services are also to be integrated and related to the hospital, and I believe that it will be the pattern for large purpose-built modern general and specialist hospitals in the future, providing an integrated building with integrated services serving the community in different ways and responding to different needs. Returning to the specifics of the Motion, the Green Paper published earlier this year did not touch on the question of finance. Finance is the heart of the problem, and the allocation of resources is part of that heart. Both sides of the House examining this objectively will acknowledge the unfortunate and sad position of the previous Government in that, despite their good intentions, they did not achieve their objectives in the National Health Service and the other services. Real spending on the National Health Service and other services scarcely rose at all when, over the period, the national tax take doubled. One example of mistakes arising out of good intentions is that prescription charges were abolished and then reimposed in crisis conditions. If prescription charges had been recognised as one way of raising additional urgently needed  finance for the Health Service, with specially exempted categories taken care of, there would have been an extra £75 million of resources for such priorities as hospital building, the care of the elderly and special care for the mentally handicapped. That compares quite favourably with the latest figure of £120 million of new hospital building. Command Paper 4234 is questionable in its strategic results in terms of what it postulated for increases in spending. It does not postulate a rise in spending on the social services over all, but it postulates a basic crisis in that the community must decide how it is to achieve additional receipts in order to create additional spending on special categories of need. This is a question of savings, efficiency and productivity in the Health Service, referred to on page 53 of the previous Government's Command Paper. I hope that this new Government will tackle it with energy. I want finally to suggest, tentatively and humbly, a number of ways in which we could decide on priorities for the future. First, the local authorities' care services need to be encouraged a good deal more. Here I pay tribute not only to the London Borough of Harrow as an outstanding local authority in this respect, but to other local authorities as well. The emphasis will need to be greater in the future. The rate support grant system will need to be looked at in a fundamental way when the new Administration has the time to slot it into their lengthy and exhaustive programme. Secondly, we need to boost integrated hospitals, and I have referred already to the Northwick Park Hospital. Thirdly, I do not think that the organisational reconstruction outlined in the Green Paper was a partisan issue and, therefore, subject to details, I imagine that the present Administration will give some thought to reconstructing and co-ordinating the services. Finally, while universality has been a great servant of the country in the past, at the margin, there may be cases where it is not applicable. Unfortunately, there has been a curious paradox in the past that the universal basis of providing social services has enhanced the inequality of the services provided and the treatment received by different people. There will always be people who, despite a heavy tax burden, have little confidence in the   quality of the services provided and decide to finance them themselves. That means that the national services may be deficient, in the sense of the pressure of demand on limited resources. I am very grateful for the indulgence of the House. I thank hon. Members for listening to me, and I hope to have the opportunity of speaking again at a later stage.
