gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful to the hon. Member for Worthing (Mr. Higgins) for making his maiden speech, because I think the House enjoyed it, and, although I did not agree with his arguments, it helped to break the impression that we might have been in the Scottish Grand Committee because of the three previous speakers. Tradition is a great thing. The unfortunate part of it is that we take advantage of it in making our maiden speech by claiming the right of privilege. As a non-conforming, disputatious and somewhat rebellious Scot I am not sure that I want to claim any privilege in the sense of being free from interruption; in fact I might welcome it because it might make me feel more at home. But being also a canny Scot, I have no doubt that there is good reason for this tradition and I shall certainly do my best to observe it. My predecessor, William Reid, was a man who gave 44 years to public service, 30 years as a member of the Corporation of Glasgow, during which period he claimed to have tried 20,000 cases as a police judge. I must confess that it is too late for me to compete on that score, but certainly during his 14 years membership in this House I think that his most dramatic contribution was on the subject of the abolition of capital punishment. It seems to me that in the first Session of this Parliament this also might be an appropriate subject matter for discussion. But it is in the name of Provan that I should like to make a few remarks. Provan is rich in historical association with the City of Glasgow. It takes its name from former lands of the Church and indeed it is connected with the oldest house in Glasgow, Provand's Lordship. The lairds of Provan in the past included William Turnbull, Bishop of Glasgow and founder of Glasgow University, and later James IV. They were fruitful lands for the Church in those days, and indeed they are fruitful lands now. There is the magnificent achievement of the Glasgow Corporation in its   attempts to solve the housing problem of that great city. Within Provan in the post-war period alone we have had about 15,000 new houses for a population of 50,000 and 22 new schools—16 primary schools, five secondary schools—all comprehensive schools—and one special school. They are well equipped with everything except, as the cynics say, teachers. We have the unenviable record of having the highest incidence of teacher shortage in the country. This is only one of the many headaches handed over by the former Government to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland. Industry is taken care of in our modern industrial estate which was started in 1946, with the first factory being occupied in 1948. It manufactures and produces anything from ladies' outerwear to valves for Polaris submarines. It is a pity that after about 18 years it is still not fully utilised. I should like to think that this contribution is relevant to the debate. I believe that it is relevant, for two reasons. I have had some connection with the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance. Although I was not in at the conception of the scheme, I was associated with its birth, having been employed in the Department since 1947 until I was somewhat unceremoniously banged out on my neck as a result of being selected as a prospective Parliamentary candidate. While many hon. Members may criticise the present Minister and past Ministers for the lack of speed in implementing pension increases, I can assure the House that no criticism could be made of the speed with which I was removed from that Department. I want to be perfectly fair. It was not the responsibility of the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance. It was a Treasury ruling of which I was aware. I should like to go on record as saying that the Department has a wonderful record of a liberal outlook in the sense that it afforded me many facilities to engage in local authority work. I am sure that these facilities will be continued and, I hope, extended by the new regime. I did not receive a golden handshake when I left, and, unlike other more fortunate Members, I will not even get a directorship if the people of Provan reject me. However, I take comfort from the  thought that they are a very intelligent, discerning electorate who gave me a 14,000 majority. The subject of pensions is a very emotional one because we always seem to be playing on the natural sympathy of people for those less fortunate than ourselves. There are strong differences of opinion on this side of the House as well as on the benches opposite. I should like to deal with some of the wider aspects of social insurance and social services. The care of the aged emphasises how far behind we have lagged in our social service provision. It would do us well as politicians to recognise the political significance of the old people in terms of numbers alone, not just by making nice pleasant speeches, but by applying ourselves to the problems of old age. I know that this is unpardonable, but may I say to the hon. Member for Worthing, who has just made his maiden speech, that we should be thinking less in terms of reviewing things in actuarial isolation. We should be considering them more from the broader aspect and in relation to the other services and benefits which might be provided for the old and others. I should like to draw attention to what I have always felt were one or two minor anomalies in the scheme. The earnings rule has been referred to by my right hon. Friend the Minister. It is a source of great discontent, particularly in areas like Glasgow which are suffering from under-employment, that so many old people are exploited quite mercilessly by employers who give them part-time wages for full-time work simply to keep them within the earnings regulations. I hope that this is a matter which will be covered in a major review. Another point is that the disregard in the National Assistance Board scales can apply to certain categories of benficiary, but not to the thrifty person who has earned increments on his own National Insurance pension. This is something else which could be examined. Lastly, I can never understand why it is that if someone in the Services is killed in a motor accident involving an Army truck his widow should receive one rate of pension, whereas if a worker who is going to his place of employment in his employer's vehicle is killed as the result of a motor accident his widow   gets another rate of benefit. If the unfortunate chap who happens to be walking along the street minding his business is killed by a vehicle driven by a Service man or a worker, his widow gets a lower rate of benefit. It has always seemed to me that there is something unreal and unjust about this and that we have not applied our minds to the problem. I am mainly concerned with the future from its broadest aspect. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, during the debate on the Queen's Speech, referred to the possibility of using the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance and the National Assistance Board as a means of liaison with other welfare organisations. There are no other departments which have greater knowledge of the problems of the people, whether they arise from widowhood, retirement, broken marriages, unmarried mothers, illegitimate children, financial matters, alcoholics or problem families. Name the problem and officers in these two departments will have had experience of people who have suffered from them. The time is ripe for an examination of the question of where we go from here. In my approach to the National Assistance Board, I am probably—I had better not say ""as usual"" and create any false impressions—in a minority on this side of the House. I think that the Board has done an excellent job. In many ways it is unfortunate that, because of the historical associations the National Assistance has had in the past, we have all at some time or other tended to continue the old outlook. Even in the Beveridge Report dealing with benefits generally, against the background of examination of financial resources, it was stated: The first view is that benefit in return for contributions, rather than free allowances from the State is what the people desire … It is shown another way by the strength of popular objection to any kind of means test. These and some of the other attitudes that we still have are unfortunate. They are understandable on this side of the House particularly because of the viciousness of the means test in the old Public Assistance days in the 1930s. They are probably explained among hon. Members opposite by their constant admiration, pre-war perhaps, of some of the excesses  of State control in the countries of the dictators, when many hon. Members opposite were extolling the qualities and virtues of dictatorship. Certainly, hon. Members opposite and their party have constantly been guilty of using all civil servants as whipping boys to discredit ideas of State ownership or some kind of planning and they have used this popular misconception of civil servants and Government Departments to justify their own political ends. Let me make one controversial point. I am sorry that the hon. Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) is not in her place. In her speech, the hon. Lady said that the National Assistance Board was a wonderful instrument. Before playing an instrument, however, one must make sure that it is in tune. Let us look at this wonderful instrument after 13 years. In dealing with accommodation, last year's Report of the Board stated that it was necessary to make provision for it by encroaching on rooms which are ordinarily reserved for conferences or staff messing or which are not suitable for normal use as working rooms, perhaps because of bad natural lighting. In several offices staff have had to share desks.' After 13 years of this wonderful instrument, the staff were working in conditions like that. They are almost as bad as the conditions which have been provided in the accommodation of Members of Parliament. In 1963, the staff had to work almost 1 million hours of overtime. The percentage of temporary staff rose from 14 per cent. in 1961 to 21 per cent. in 1963. In 1963, there were 50 specialist officers engaged in the wonderful task of trying to rehabilitate people who had been long-term unemployed. During the first half of 1963, every one of those 50 specialist officers had to be taken off those duties and put on to ordinary duties in the Board. This is what the hon. Lady the Member for Finchley refers to as a wonderful instrument. It does not strike me that we will get much tune from an instrument like that if so little regard is shown for the conditions under which the staff have to work. As I see it, we have this opportunity to make an advance in benefits and in the future we will have the opportunity of putting forward our ideas for the new Britain in relation to the wider field of social services and all the problems that   bother us in the community. I hope that I will have the opportunity in all humility of playing my part in ensuring that, having arrived in the corridors of power, they are properly signposted out of the 'sixties into a new era of human relationships based upon dignity, understanding, justice and a genuine concern for our fellow man.
