gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I want to make reference to one point which is not usually raised in this House when Palestine is debated, probably because it is a subject that is rather disagreeable—the danger of a fresh outburst of anti-Semitism, not merely in Palestine among the Arabs but here and everywhere. It is a danger which does exist and is particularly acute after the recent explosion in Jerusalem. No good whatever can come from hiding the fact and pretending that the danger does not exist. However strongly and sincerely the Jewish leaders and people deplore and condemn the recent outrages in Palestine, nevertheless, there still remains in the minds of many people a suspicion, and more than a suspicion, that these outrages have some connection at least with the extremist  political attitude of some Jews here, and more particularly in America. Indeed, the very fact that these acts were committed by Jews makes them appear to some people even more shocking than if they had been committed by other people, simply because there does exist a latent and potential hostility to the Jews. This is something which is not too often openly ventilated in this House, but I think it ought to be. It is a fact which must be faced, and it must be faced, I think, first of all, and principally, by the Jews themselves. They can do more themselves in the long run to combat this danger than anyone else. They ought, I think, to insist that their leaders in Jerusalem and in Palestine generally should dissociate themselves openly and entirely from the terrorist groups, which are carrying out this stupid and wicked policy, and openly declare that they are not in favour of a solution by violence. They ought to impress upon their leaders in Palestine that the ultimate result of these activities, even if they were to succeed in Palestine and achieve the very objects which the Jews there desire—and I do not for one moment believe that they will—could be nothing but bad for the Jews everywhere. We ourselves, particularly in this House, must also in the face of the growing danger of anti-Semitism remind ourselves of our own responsibility. We must refuse to allow our decision to be influenced, even indirectly, by the vulgar clamour of those people, who preach aloud or, worse still, who whisper this ancient and damnable creed of racial and religious hatred. We must take care to remind ourselves that the recent happenings in Palestine, although they have certainly not helped to solve the problem, have, nevertheless, not fundamentally altered it. A solution which may have been correct just a month ago is still no less correct and just now. The problem has not altered. What has altered is merely that there is a fresh urgency to find a solution. That is why I, and no doubt everyone else in this House, is delighted that the Government have come forward with a solution, and Heaven knows, the Government have kept us waiting long enough for it. I see no reason why the plan which has now been put forward, which has nothing fearful, novel or revolutionary about it, could not   have been submitted to this House six months ago. At any rate, we have some sort of solution to work upon and I hope the solution will be tried very speedily. I welcome it, but I do not feel that it is ideal chiefly because, as the right hon. Member for West Bristol (Mr. Stanley) said, there is no element of finality about it. However, perhaps that is just as well at the moment. We are faced with a position in which we must give an urgent and speedy answer, and in that case it is just as well that the solution put forward has in it nothing of absolute finality. But, as the Lord President of the Council pointed out, it can at least serve as a basis for a future final solution, a final solution which must be found. He has stated that it can lead either to partition of the country or to some form of federal unity. When he speaks of partition, I presume that he means complete partition. I believe that he means the existence of two States, and only two, with no central Government, and one completely independent of the other. I hope that such a solution will never be adopted. I do not agree that partition can solve anything. As a matter of fact, such a solution would really create new problems. There would be again a new frontier problem and a new minority problem. There must obviously be a minority problem unless these two States, set up as a result of partition, are hermetically sealed. This Government recently decided finally and wisely against partition in India. I hope, whatever happens in the meantime, that that policy in India will be most strictly adhered to. Similarly here the Government should resist and should discourage other people from thinking about a solution for Palestine by partition. We certainly in this House have no excuse whatsoever for ignoring the dangers of the evil of partition—we who have on our own doorstep and under our very eyes the sad and sorry result of the bitter experiment of partition in Ireland. No man in his sane senses would like to see a Stormont erected on the hills outside Jerusalem. I think, on the other hand, that federal unity, to which the Lord President has made reference, is considerably more attractive, more just in the long run and more sensible. It is a system which has worked in most places; in fact, in every place where it has been tried. It has not  always been tried in the same manner, but the underlying principle can be found in many parts of the world. It has worked well in Switzerland, for instance, and in the United States. Speaking of the United States, it makes one rather shocked to find that certain American publicists have spoken against federal unity for Palestine and are in favour of partition when one remembers that the Americans themselves, when faced with a similar difficulty in their own country, thought it worth while to fight a long and bitter civil war precisely in order to avoid American partition, and to create a government of federal unity. This same system of federal unity will eventually work in India. There is no reason on earth why it could not work now smoothly and easily in Ireland. I believe that it is, ultimately, the solution which will be found for Palestine. Meantime, I hope that the plans which the Lord President announced to the House today will be negotiated with the utmost speed. We cannot afford to lose a single moment.
