gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I believe that in a maiden speech it is the convention to speak briefly and on matters that interest one closely. This I shall try to do. In the Gracious Speech, I welcome the suggestion that we shall negotiate our way into the European Economic Community. It has long been my view that a Labour Government would conduct us into Europe, and I hope that we shall see this happen in the next 18 months. Certainly, this will be a great advantage to the town of Yarmouth, as the directors of Birds Eye Foods, one of its most prominent local light industries, have declared. I also think that it will be an advantage to the rural part of the constituency, providing that during an interim period agricultural and horticultural interests are both safeguarded. For East Anglia, indeed, this is the only solution, for otherwise we shall face the alternative of having to consider East Anglia as a special development area. The average wages in East Anglia are about £11 to £12 a week. Today is the birthday of Her Majesty the Queen, and when I read that a salvo of guns had been fired in her honour I was reminded of a speech I heard in Hyderabad by Mr. Bhuptesh Gulpta, the Bengali Communist leader. He criticised what he called the ""poetic sentiments"", of Pandit Nehru on the Commonwealth and the fact that Mr. Nehru had given instructions that on the Queen's Birthday a salvo of guns should be fired by the Indian fleet. He went on to say that in England, on the birthday of the President of India, not a pistol shot was heard throughout the country. Of course, unfortunately, with the death of that great Socialist statesman, poetic sentiments on the Commonwealth are certainly dead in India as well. Our relationship with India in the future must rest on common interests and ideology. The Foreign Secretary, speaking on another occasion, said that in the world arena of power politics, given the choice between China, Russia and the United States, on the ground of personal and civil liberties we had to stand with the  United States. Certainly in Vietnam we have bent over backwards in our loyalties. I personally would have liked to have heard some criticism, for example, of the bombing of the rural population. At the same time, I accept the logic of my right hon. Friend's argument, and I apply it to our relationship with India. In India we have a country which is a Parliamentary democracy, in which elections are contested by political parties on the kind of basis that we recognise here. Surely we should have, with such a country and with its Congress Government, deep ideological sympathy. I think that the Indian Government and people have some reason for the disillusioned feelings that they have expressed during the past three to four years. When the Labour Party came to power here a great burst of enthusiasm swept throughout the whole of India. Indians expected from this country ideological sympathy, material support and identity of view, but I suggest that we have not extended to India the same kind of ideological support that we have extended to the United States. As I believe that the future of this country is and must be as a European Power, as I believe that if our economy is to be made healthy we must cut back further on defence and must withdraw from defence commitments east of Suez, so I believe that we must build up throughout the world a series of strong friendships based on interests and ideology. I suggest that the corner stone of our Asian policy must be firm friendship with India and Ceylon rather than with countries which do not have Parliamentary democracies of the kind that we know here. I would like to thank you, Mr. Speaker, and right hon. and hon. Members for their indulgence and to say that it is an extremely happy occasion for me finally to have the opportunity to address this House.
