gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I must ask the House to be kind enough to extend to me the indulgence which it usually grants to maiden speachers. I am aware that this is a highly controversial subject, and that it is my duty, as a maiden speaker, to be non-controversial. I can only say that I shall do my best, although I must be controversial to the extent of expressing an opinion. First, I should like to say how much I welcome the proposals contained in the speech of my right hon. and gallant Friend the Home Secretary for some amendment of the law relating to murder. The suggestions which he has mentioned will go some way towards narrowing down the category of murderer. I shall feel very much happier when the term ""murderer"" includes only those people who, having complete control over their senses, set out in cold blood either to take the life of another themselves or actively to assist in doing so. To me, that person is the real murderer. He is the man whom we must prevent from committing his crime if we possibly can. Many hon. Members have spoken of the deterrent effect of the death penalty, and I shall have a word to say about that. Before doing so, however, I suggest that the penalty which may be imposed for a crime is not the only deterrent. In my view, there are two deterrent factors—the likelihood of being caught, and the penalty which may be inflicted if one is caught. If both those factors are great, I believe that the total deterrent effect is great, but if either is small the total deterrent effect is weakened. Perhaps I may instance, as an illustration of what I mean, a very much less serious offence than that which we are now discussing. Many a motorist will drive his motor car through a deserted street in a built-up area at 35 m.p.h. knowing full well that the chances of his being caught are very small, but that same man, driving the same motor car on a main road, where he knows that   police patrols are operating, will take much more care not to exceed the speed limit. The penalty for the offence is exactly the same in both cases, but the likelihood of being caught is widely different. I do not see any reason why that principle should not apply to greater crimes—even to the greatest of all, which we are now discussing; the crime of murder. In this country, the chances of being caught after committing a murder are very high. In the last three years over 500 murders have been committed, and in only one case in every 14 has the murderer remained undetected. I am sure the House will agree that those figures reflect great credit upon the police. The detection of murder is a very arduous and difficult job, and our police forces are understaffed. Such a high proportion of detections is greatly to their credit. I very much hope that the measures which the Government are taking to bring our police forces up to full strength will assist them to make the proportion of undetected murders even smaller. I wish that the figures which I have just given to the House were more widely known. I do not think that they are sufficiently well known. There is an impression among some people that if one is clever enough one can get away with murder, but it is clearly very difficult to do so. The deterrent effect of knowing these figures would be very high. As I have said, the other part of the deterrent effect is the penalty which may be exacted if one is caught. Many speakers have pointed out that a considerable difference of opinion exists as to the value of the death penalty as a deterrent. We are told that statistics really do not show anything one way or the other—so one is obliged to rely upon what other information one can get from the Royal Commission Report and from the common sense outlook that one adopts. I rely for my opinion upon an extract from the Report of the Royal Commission, which says, in page 21: capital punishment is likely to act as a deterrent more of premeditated murders than of impulsive ones, and on normal persons more than on the mentally abnormal. The Report says that this statement cannot be supported by statistics, but is  a commonsense view. Many people will not stop to consider the question of deterrents at all, such as those who act with a sudden ungovernable passion, or who are slightly mentally off balance, but I think that the cold-blooded, calculating murderer—who is the man more nearly contained within the definition of the term, if the law is altered—is more open to influence. I agree with my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Kensington. South (Sir P. Spens) that the only way in which one can form an opinion of the influence of the death penalty, apart from statistics, is to consider one's own reaction. I have no idea how the threat of death would affect anybody else, but I am quite convinced that, knowing that I was very, very likely to be caught, and that if I were I might be put to death as a penalty. I would be very much more deterred than if I realised that the penalty was only imprisonment. I would gladly welcome any measures designed to exclude from the category of murderer everybody but the cold-blooded, calculating man who deliberately sets out to take the life of another. For him I have come to the conclusion, with some reluctance, that the law relating to the death penalty should not be altered.
