gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to speak in this important debate. I congratulate my hon. Friends the Members for Bristol, West (Valerie Davey), for Bury, North (Mr. Chaytor), for Harrow, West (Mr. Thomas) and for Stretford and Urmston (Ms Hughes) and the hon. Members for Runnymede and Weybridge (Mr. Hammond) and for Taunton (Mrs. Ballard) on their interesting, intelligent and coherent maiden speeches. I wish to place on record my thanks to the voters of Hammersmith and Fulham for electing me as the first Member of Parliament for the new constituency. My constituency is made up of the whole of the previous Fulham constituency and the five most southerly wards of what was previously the Hammersmith constituency. It has areas of considerable affluence and wealth, notably around the southern locations of the Fulham road and the New King's road, which are generously scattered with glitzy wine bars and expensive restaurants. However, there are also pockets of deprivation sitting beside this affluence which rank with anything anywhere in the United Kingdom. It may come as a surprise to the House to learn that Hammersmith and Fulham is the 16th poorest borough in the United Kingdom, according to the former Department of the Environment's statistics. To demonstrate what that statistic means in practice, I shall cite some further facts that may also surprise some hon. Members. In Hammersmith and Fulham, more than 35 per cent. of households are dependent on benefit; 38 per cent. of children have no parent who is working; 42 per cent. of pensioners have a serious long-term illness; 53 per cent. of primary school children are entitled to free school meals, which is twice the national average, and in south Fulham the figure is a staggering 75 per cent; and the death rate for males under 60 is more than 60 per cent. higher than the national average. I have advised the House of those stark and disturbing statistics to nail the wide public perception that my inner-city constituency is a cosy London base for the chattering classes and City stockbrokers. The true picture is only too often one of a community bravely but desperately struggling against poverty, sickness, unemployment and deprivation. I also wish to pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush (Mr. Soley). For 18 years before 1 May, my hon. Friend represented in the House those residents living in the five wards I mentioned which were in the southerly part of the old Hammersmith constituency. During those years, my hon. Friend justly earned a reputation for being an excellent constituency Member. On behalf of my constituents in those old Hammersmith wards, I wish to place on record our thanks for his years of dedicated service to our community. Some very distinguished current and former Members of the House represented the old Fulham constituency. Not least among this group was Lord Michael Stewart   who represented Fulham from 1945 to 1979 when he retired. Lord Stewart was a much-loved local figure who is still spoken of in Fulham with great warmth and huge affection. Martin Stevens was the Member of Parliament from 1979 until his untimely death in 1985. At the by-election that followed, my hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich (Mr. Raynsford) was elected in a famous victory for the Labour party. I had the privilege of working for my hon. Friend in that by-election and have been pleased to work with him since on several issues. I am delighted that he has been appointed to his critical new job in the Government. I also wish to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the last-ever Member of Parliament for the old Fulham constituency, Matthew Carrington. While it was inevitable that in our different roles—he as a Conservative Government loyalist and I as a Labour council leader—we would often publicly disagree, I also found Matthew to be courteous and honourable. He earned his reputation as a conscientious and diligent constituency Member of Parliament. I shall briefly and somewhat belatedly congratulate the two professional football clubs in my constituency on their recent splendid achievements. Fulham football club has so often been threatened recently with extinction, but I am delighted to say that it is now safe and secure in its ancestral home at Craven Cottage. Doubtless, difficult negotiations lie ahead, but these are exciting times for Fulham. Recent developments have been a splendid way to end a splendid season for Fulham, which earned promotion to division two last season. Congratulations are also in order for Chelsea football club. The Evening Standard recently castigated the right hon. Member for Kensington and Chelsea (Mr. Clark) for failing to attend the cup final even though his local side were represented. I am more than happy to defend the right hon. Gentleman against that scurrilous and disgraceful calumny against his good name, because Chelsea football club is, of course, located in my constituency. While my own footballing loyalty lies in London N5, I sincerely congratulate everyone at Stamford Bridge on their terrific achievement in winning the Football Association cup in such style. The Evening Standard recently claimed that Chelsea had little local community support. Anyone who visited the constituency in the weeks before the cup final and saw the huge amount of decorations and bunting, or who witnessed the fantastic scenes outside Fulham town hall on the Sunday morning, when 100,000 people greeted the team and the Minister for sport, my hon. Friend the Member for West Ham (Mr. Banks), as they paraded the cup on an open-top bus will understand how off beam the newspaper's report was. I shall turn briefly to the details of today's debate. I welcome the Bill because it demonstrates the Government's commitment to tackling homelessness and bad housing conditions. Since 1979, investment in public sector housing has declined by more than 70 per cent. Even in the current financial year, the overall housing budget has been cut by one third, which has led to a cut in London alone of approximately £285 million. The Government are correct to acknowledge that the existing  distribution of set-aside capital receipts does not necessarily reflect those areas in greatest need, which must be our greatest priority. I have already spoken about the high levels of deprivation in parts of Hammersmith and Fulham. The council-owned stock is some of the oldest in London, with a high percentage of properties built before 1945. Inadequate capital investment has left too many homes with inadequate heating systems, rotten windows, leaking roofs and other major defects. Some of the council properties in my constituency do not have internal bathrooms. All that is despite the fact that, under the five major criteria used to measure the performance of local authority housing departments by the previous Government—the quality of the housing strategy, the commitment to the enabling role of the local authority, the quality of housing management, the degree of tenant participation and the track record in delivering capital schemes—my local authority was classed in the top 20 per cent. in London. In other words, even if local authorities played the Tory Government's game, they were still starved of the necessary investment. In Hammersmith and Fulham today, more than 6,000 households are on the housing register. Some 2,724 households are on the transfer list, including 367 that have a family member suffering from a serious medical condition or are statutorily overcrowded. Some 748 households are in temporary accommodation. That has led to the break-up of working-class communities that have lived in those areas of my constituency for generation after generation. With a three-bedroomed flat in south Fulham now costing an average of £200,000, young people have been forced to move away from their families, friends and relatives, leading to much heartache and anguish. The private rented sector, where it exists, is entirely beyond the reach of ordinary working people. Therefore, many young families from my constituency have been forced to move east or west, or accept that they have no prospect of bringing up a family in decent housing conditions. No one expects that we can reverse the situation overnight. People understand that reversing almost two decades of neglect will take time. However, the opportunities presented by the increase in capital investment mean that housing strategies can be revised to allow for a planned improvement to existing housing stock. In the past few years, those council tenants fortunate enough to have any work undertaken have had to suffer as their homes have effectively been turned into building sites for years on end while work is done in small phases to match the small levels of funding available. The Bill will change that and will bring other much-needed benefits. It will stimulate the construction industry and create jobs not only in the building sector but in the manufacturing and engineering sectors. I reiterate my total support for this welcome and much-needed Bill.
