gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising for the first time in this House, I ask hon. Members to afford me that generosity and tolerance which they have already afforded to my predecessors and to overlook any shortcomings in my speech. I wish to deal with a matter which I do not think has been touched upon so far. I refer to the question of technical manpower and maintenance. We see from the White Paper that we are cutting down our Forces and increasing our expenditure on research and development; but I believe that both parties in this House will agree that we are having the greatest possible difficulty, even at this moment, in maintaining the highly technical devices with which our Forces are equipped. I am interested as an engineer. I see even more complicated devices being brought forward and I have grave fears that we shall not be able to do the absolutely essential job of maintaining all these technical devices in a very high state of efficiency. I am sure that hon. Members will agree that this is not just a debating point. The anti-aircraft gun is useless unless it has radar and a predictor operating with it. It is virtually useless unless those two pieces of equipment are operating at peak efficiency. A ship cannot defend herself unless she has reasonable warning of an approaching enemy aircraft. She cannot locate an adversary and she cannot hit back unless her radar is working efficiently. In the Royal Air Force, of which I speak with some personal knowledge, as did the hon. Member for Wycombe (Mr. Haire), they are even more dependent upon technical equipment. Jet fighters, about which we have heard a lot during this Debate, with their short endurance and high speed, might as well be left in the storage unit if they have not got radar to direct them, control them and  enable them to find and attack their targets. In the anti-submarine sphere, we cannot find the very small response from the Snorkel, the breathing tube of a submarine, unless the radar of the aircraft is maintained at absolute peak efficiency. We have heard also about the sonobuoy. Both the buoy itself and the equipment in the aircraft must be properly maintained. It was said at one time that an army marched on its stomach. There is absolutely no doubt that all our Forces today rely for their efficiency on their technicians. That point has already been made, but I repeat it because it is most important. We are spending £780 million in larger and larger proportions on technical equipment; but are we, in fact, able to maintain it? I have grave doubts. I am well aware that all the Forces' manpower commissions have given much thought to this problem, but if we judge by results there is still a great deal of distance to be covered. The National Service man with just 18 months' service cannot be an efficient technician at his junior age, and all the Forces will agree that one only gets perhaps six months of operational service from him. The Royal Air Force have recently inquired of industry whether they would further a scheme to persuade technicians who are called for National Service to volunteer not for 18 months but for a three-year period. That is an admirable idea. The idea is that instead of National Service being a waste of time and a horrible break in civilian training, one should progress smoothly in one's trade training and that when one goes back to the same firm they should guarantee re-employment. This is admirable in every way. Another point which I think is also a valuable check is the proposal that the firm should keep a tab on the people it has loaned to the Service to make sure that they are occupied in a useful technical manner. I think that idea is in every way excellent, but I have seen that the R.A.F. are asking for 6,000 maintenance personnel from this source each year. I submit that, even with the full enthusiasm which industry would give to the scheme, it is quite unrealistic to expect numbers of that type. What are we going to do? I was greatly impressed when discussing this problem with the American Forces. They   had the same kind of problem, and even with their high rates of pay they had trouble in recruiting really high-grade technicians to operate their complicated radar stations. They have a scheme which I would like the Minister of Defence to consider. They went to their big radio companies and leased high-grade technicians for a period of a year, and I know of complicated radar stations on the continent of Europe which played a very important part in the airlift and of which the supervisory technicians, though wearing uniform, had no rank, and were, in fact, on lease from one of the big radio companies. I think that scheme might be explored further, because these companies are pleased to have these men back, since they go back with practical operational knowledge, and, incidentally, with knowledge of faults in design which can be corrected in the next mark of equipment. I think the Americans have got something there. To summarise what I have said so far, we have the National Service man at the lowest level, the volunteers of the three-year type at the medium level, and now, I hope, these high-grade technicians at the top level; but all of them must surely be backed up by really good Regular Forces. We cannot depend on this type of technician solely; we must have good engineers in our Regular Forces. I believe that at the moment a great deal of waste of time is going on at all levels in the Regular Forces. It is not good enough to have to attend medical inspections, equipment and kit parades and parades of all sorts. Inspections of this, that and the other type all waste time, so that the people on the job are doing perhaps only two or three useful hours' work every day, We have got to make the optimum use of manpower if we are to get value for the very large sums we are now spending. Lastly, the Minister of Defence mentioned the question of the short tail and large head, but a head with some teeth. If this is to be so—and I think that hon. Members on both sides will support that idea—has not the moment come to rely for first-line maintenance on the forces I have suggested, but, for second, third and fourth-line maintenance, on civilian industry? It happened immediately after the war that the aircraft, electrical and radio industries were busy rehabilitating war-time equipment. That is beginning  to come to an end, and, on another score, we have heard of bombers being supplied from America. I have no doubt that the same applies to other items of equipment. If that is so—and I have that trouble in my own constituency, where we find that we have engineers and technicians being thrown temporarily out of employment—is not this the moment to say, ""Right, we will throw our effort for second, third and fourth-line maintenance into these very channels where we have spare employees already trained and skilled in that very work."" I think careful consideration ought to be given to that suggestion. May I, last of all, mention the question of the co-ordination of our efforts? We have heard much about the supply of modern jet aircraft, not only to our Regular and Auxiliary Forces, but also to the countries of Western Europe, but are those aircraft backed up by the signal services and radar services which are absolutely essential if they are to do their job? I have my doubts. We read in the White Paper last year, under the heading Western Union, that: British ground radar equipment is also being supplied from the United Kingdom for an integrated early warning system. One could suppose that by now that integrated ground radar system has come into being, but I wonder if that is so, because there is no mention of it either in this year's White Paper or in the White Paper dealing with Western Union. In three hours' time it will be two years since the Brussels Pact was signed. We have had two years of planning. In all humility, may I ask the Prime Minister whether he would give us some assurance that we have, in fact, made progress, not just in the planning, but in the real integration of the air forces of Western Europe? We must surely not only be able to use our squadrons in this country but be able to allow them to deploy all over Western Europe with the confidence that they can immediately pick up the first, class signal and radar services essential to their operations. Otherwise, I feel that we are merely deceiving the public, perhaps in this country and perhaps in Western Europe, into a false sense of security. If our squadrons cannot operate effectively because they cannot find their enemy, then they cannot defend the public against that enemy. If we cannot defend   Western Europe, we cannot save this country, Western Europe or Western civilisation.
