gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy-Speaker, it is with great diffidence that I rise to speak on so important and serious a subject, and as I have no reasonable prospect of disguising my nervousness I feel it better   to confess it at the outset and seek the indulgence of the House. I understand that it is traditional when one first addresses this House, which I am conscious is a great honour as well as a nerve-racking experience, to abstain from controversy and to begin by making reference to one's constituency. It is easy for me to combine the observation of both those traditions, for I have the honour to represent Southport, which is, of course, by common consent the finest coastal and residential resort throughout the length and breadth of the United Kingdom. Turning to the subject of this debate, I have one point and one point only to make: and I have already suffered the mortification of hearing my one point made already by both right hon. Members in opening the debate. However, and since they have made it as but one part of much wider arguments, I venture to hope that the House may feel that it is a point of sufficient importance to merit further development as a single point in isolation. In common with all lawyers, I have for many years taken a close interest in the subject of Crown privilege in relation to evidence in proceedings, with especial reference to the relationship between the claiming of Crown privilege on the one hand—which necessarily means that the subject and the tribunal are deprived of material evidence—and the liberty of the subject, on the other hand, which requires that on all matters which fall to be decided by a court or tribunal all material that is admissible as evidence should be before the tribunal. I rise to speak because I seem to have discerned in discussions about this case, both within the precincts of this Palace and outside, a certain amount of misunderstanding as to that relationship between Crown privilege and the liberty of the subject, and I should like at least to endeavour to make a small contribution towards removing that misunderstanding. I propose, therefore, to direct my remarks particularly to the question of the making available to a court or tribunal of evidence of the nature of that which was, in fact, before the tribunal in the matter which gives rise to this discussion. Of course, I appreciate fully that the first reaction of many people, and a very  natural and normal reaction, may well have been that the making available of such evidence is an infringement of the liberty of the subject. Indeed, there can be no other ground for complaint about making it available. I hope, however, to be able to demonstrate that that does not at all necessarily follow and that the true position may, indeed, be the reverse. As I understand the facts—and I say that advisedly, because I accept that I may not have them as completely, or as completely accurately, as other speakers in this debate—the evidence in this case was quite clearly admissible and clearly most material and important. The tribunal, as has already been said—though perhaps I may be permitted to repeat at least this part of the facts in order to develop my own way of putting the point—had power to subpoena the witness to give evidence of what he had heard, and he was obliged to give that evidence unless both of two requirements were fulfilled. The first was that the Crown had the right to claim privilege or otherwise to prevent the witness from giving his oral evidence. The second was that the officer of the Crown delegated to exercise those privileges chose in his discretion to exercise them. I venture to doubt whether in this particular case, though much more authoritative legal opinions than mine may be expressed about it, the Crown had, in fact, any right to claim privilege, because it would have been difficult to bring the case within the grounds upon which it is permissible for the Crown to claim privilege. If that be right, then the second question, the discretion as to whether that privilege should have been claimed or not, did not arise. if I am right on that proposition of law, then it would, of course, be necessary for the Crown to seek an extension of the right to claim privilege if it were to be able to prevent the giving of such evidence as this in the future. But it is within my knowledge, and, I am sure, within the knowledge of all hon. Members, that for many years now there has been a cry, from lawyer and layman alike, that the power of the Crown to claim privilege should be reduced and that such powers as are left to the Crown to claim privilege should be used more and more sparingly.   The whole basis upon which that claim has been advanced has been that the exercise by the Crown of its right to claim privilege is a most glaring instance of infringement of the liberties of the subject. And it is a very real infringement of the liberties of the subject, and I am not entirely convinced that the subjects other than lawyer subjects fully appreciate what a grave infringement it is. If the rule of law is to continue to prevail, it is absolutely essential that justice should be done and be seen to be done. It is a prerequisite of that, and one of the rules of natural justice, that a tribunal called upon to decide between subject and subject or subject and Crown should have before it all the material and evidence relevant to its decision, and, ex hypothesi, every time Crown privilege is claimed the tribunal is deprived of some material which is relevant to its decision and, therefore, hampered in doing justice. In 1953, great concern was aroused by the case of Ellis and the Home Office, in which case it was said that the plaintiff was denied evidence which might have assisted his case because the Crown had claimed privilege and deprived the Court of that evidence. So strongly did the learned judge who tried the case feel about it that he said this: I must express, as I have expressed during the hearing of the case, my uneasy feeling that justice may not have been done because the material before me was not complete, and something more than an uneasy feeling that, whether justice has been done or not, it will certainly not appear to have been done. On appeal, Lord Justice Jenkins, as he then was, pointed out that, while it must always be reasonable to permit the Crown to claim privilege where the public interest demands it, if public interest is to be the test then it is in the public interest, and the public interest demands, that justice should both be done and be seen to be done. It would seem that following the case of Ellis and the Home Office some very anxious thought was given to the matter, certainly at all levels in the legal world. As my right hon. Friend has said, on 6th June, 1956, the Lord Chancellor made a statement, which has been referred to, the effect of which was that the classes of evidence in respect of  which privilege could be claimed should be narrowed. Further, he announced immediate changes in the practice to be followed by Departments of State to secure an immediate move towards that end. The late Lord Jowitt, on behalf of the Opposition on that occasion, expressed agreement with those principles and objectives. In my view, any attempt to extend the scope of Crown privilege for evidence, or to extend the use of the powers which exist, would be a most retrograde step and one which really would tend to prejudice the rights and liberties of the subject. To have taken any other course than was taken in this case would, I submit, have involved taking that step. It appears to me to be paradoxical to suggest that such a step should have been taken, or should on any future occasion be taken, on the alleged ground that it is for the protection of the liberties of the subject when, in fact, its tendency would be to operate in the other direction. I should like to illustrate my point in a simpler way. It is important that the public at large should follow these matters, and they are not altogether easy to follow as matters of law; but a simple illustration might assist to that end. I apprehend that if the evidence in question had been favourable to the subject, and had the Crown been entitled to claim privilege, and had the Crown claimed privilege, there would have been an immediate and fierce outcry that this was yet another example of the infringement of the liberties of the subject. I make no bones about it; in my view, such an outcry would have been wholly justified. However, I submit that it is illogical to suggest that because the evidence was unfavourable an outcry in the other direction is justified. The question whether evidence should or should not be made available cannot depend upon whether it is favourable or unfavourable to any party. I apologise for taking the time of the House with what I appreciate is a rather dry, dusty, lawyer-like approach to one aspect of the problem, but I have done so for two especial reasons. My first reason is that I believe that a proper consideration of this problem necessarily involves consideration of technical legal points, and it is, therefore, necessary—not necessarily desirable—that anybody   who wishes to form and express a view about it should at least have those points present in his mind. My second reason is that I hope that I may thereby make a small contribution—I hope in a non-controversial way, as has been my endeavour—towards preserving a sense of balance and proportion about this important aspect of the matter so that neither we nor the public may be stampeded by the very special facts of this particular case into advocating something which would be a reversal of what one thought was the universally accepted policy in relation to the scope of Crown privilege. I sincerely hope that, in doing so, I have not trespassed too greatly upon the indulgence of the House. If, by misfortune, I have, my only excuse must be a sincere concern for the protection of the rights and liberties of the subject, coupled with the firmly held view that there is nothing more likely to be detrimental to the rights and liberties of the subject than an extension of the right to claim Crown privilege or an extension of the use of that right.
