gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that I have been allowed to make my first formal contribution on such an important issue. It is sad to note that not a single Conservative Back Bencher has seen fit to come to the Chamber to take part in this important debate. I believe that tradition is an important anchor of our culture and I am conscious of the fact that it is the convention of the House that hon. Members should keep their first contribution light and complimentary to their constituency and predecessors. I intend to adhere at least to the spirit of that convention. The constituency of Eccles consists of seven areas—Swinton, Pendlebury, Eccles, Winton, Barton and Irlam and Cadishead. Each has its own distinctive history and features. My right hon. and hon. Friends will be relieved to know that throughout my speech I shall refer to all those areas collectively as the constituency of Eccles. I am proud to make the first maiden speech for the Eccles constituency for 33 years. My predecessor was Joan Lestor, who represented the seat with distinction between 1987 and May 1997. She had previously represented the constituency of Eton and Slough between 1966 and 1983. After a four-year sabbatical, she returned to the House with her maiden speech well behind her, and she remarked that after 17 years of Mars bars—the factory that manufactures them is based in Slough—she hoped to  have 17 years of Eccles cakes. She had 10 good years, and I hope that she thoroughly enjoyed our local speciality. I am pleased that she is now Baroness Lestor of Eccles, and I am confident that she will make a significant contribution in the House of Lords before she votes for that institution's democratic reform. In her work with children, Joan Lestor epitomised the caring face of the Labour party and in her work for overseas development she represented our internationalist face. The Government's recently published, and welcomed, White Paper on overseas development bears proud testimony to her work as shadow Minister for Overseas Development before her retirement from the Labour shadow Cabinet in July 1996. I am pleased to say that, in common with Joan, I have an interest in both those subjects. Although I met Joan on only a couple of occasions before my selection, I have always held her in high regard and I am sure that the House will join me in wishing her well in another place. The Eccles constituency is the geographic centre of the three seats in the metropolitan borough of Salford. The constituency is a suburban, industrial, working-class area on the north bank of the Manchester ship canal, due west of Manchester city centre. The boundary changes at this year's election significantly changed the shape of the seat. Its centre of gravity has moved outwards, south-west, away from the inner city, following the loss of the ward of Weaste and Seedley to the seat of my hon. Friend the Member for Salford (Ms Blears). It gained the more outlying wards of Irlam and Cadishead, where I have lived for 35 years, from the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Worsley (Mr. Lewis). My hon. Friend the Member for Salford has highlighted some of the rich heritage of the metropolitan district of Salford which is also shared by my constituency. In addition to the examples that she gave, I can tell the House that Eccles has been at the forefront of design and technological development. For example, at Barton in Eccles we had the world's first combined aqueduct and rail viaduct over a road. Now we have the largest area of development land available in Greater Manchester at the Barton special economic zone. Eccles also has a proud cultural heritage. The artist L. S. Lowry lived in the town of Pendlebury in my constituency. His appeal as a graphic illustrator of the grit and wit of Eccles and Salford people endures today, as demonstrated by the record price paid last week for a Lowry sold at Sotheby's. It is well known that he painted matchstick men and matchstick cats and dogs. It is possible that, if he were alive today, an urban fox or two would make it into his landscapes, and in the Eccles constituency they would be well protected. It is definitely true, however, that, if he were painting the same landscapes of my city today, much of the heavy industry and mills would have disappeared, only to be replaced by derelict corner shops and holes in the road, the size of craters. Hon. Members should be aware that the roads in my constituency are among the oldest and most used industrial roads in the world. I see it as part of my job to ensure that the Government understand the problems faced by areas such as mine, which have suffered horrendous industrial decline and job losses in the past 25 years or more. Having said that, Salford and Eccles folk are resilient and fine people. They have had the wit and ingenuity to devise appropriate plans that will reverse the worst of the   industrial devastation and the resultant breakdown in social cohesion which we experienced under the Conservatives. My city and my constituents need the Government to do what the previous Government failed to do—acknowledge our problems and offer encouragement and backing to the city council and other partners who are working so hard towards a better environment and a more secure future for all our people. I congratulate Salford city council on making job creation its No. 1 priority. I fully support its strategy of partnership and I am working closely with it to attract inward investment, particularly to the manufacturing sector. In the past quarter of a century, my constituency has suffered many industrial closures and job losses. The British Steel works at Irlam, the Royal Ordnance factory at Patricroft, Agecroft colliery, the power station at Swinton, and many more have shut their gates. The male unemployment rate is 6.2 per cent. and female unemployment is 2 per cent. One third of all households are council tenants. The level of car ownership is 10 per cent. below the national average, at 57.6 per cent. My constituents warmly welcome the Government's initiatives to improve public transport and implement an integrated transport service and they look forward to the extension of the successful metrolink from Manchester to Eccles. In the 1991 census, the proportion of residents reporting long-term illness was 15.9 per cent.—higher than the 12 per cent. average in England. The proportion of lone-parent families, at 24.3 per cent., is higher than the UK average of 19.1 per cent. I warmly welcome the Government's planned extension of child care, but I also want there to be adequate benefit levels. In the statistical jargon, my constituency is under-represented in the professional, managerial and technical classes, but please do not think that we have placidly accepted that situation. Salford city council and other organisations have had some success in fighting back, with a strategy based on collaboration and partnership. In line with that, a key interest of mine is education and training, and I want to help the local authority, the Employment Service and other agencies to achieve their continuing aims of boosting the aspirations of the people of Eccles, raising their achievement levels and improving access to jobs and training. I am excited about the opportunities offered by the new deal and confident that my constituents will gain skills, confidence and real employment prospect from Labour's policies—by God, people in the disadvantaged areas of my community and in others parts of the country need a way out of what we, in a sanitised way, call social exclusion but is more commonly known as poverty. Those people need and deserve a measure of positive prosperity and a safe environment in which to live. There are two main aspects to inward investment—macro-economic issues and micro-economic arguments—but we must also remind ourselves of the importance of generating indigenous investment. I shall confine my comments to the extent of my personal experience of and involvement in working collaboratively with my local authority, the Salford city council, Salford university, Salford further education college and other agencies to secure investment in our city in general and in my constituency of Eccles in particular. The figures on inward investment provided by the House of Commons Library show that the north-west of England, together with some other English regions, has not gained any of the large-scale inward investment projects since 1993. In 1996–97, we had 40 projects, just short of Wales's total of 45; and the investment in those projects safeguarded 2,256 jobs in Wales and 1,929 jobs in the north-west, so the figures are similar. However, there is a crucial difference in the outcomes in the two regions. In Wales, the investment led to nearly 10,397 new jobs, but in the north-west it brought only 1,402. It is the quality and not the volume of inward investment projects that is vital to the development and reskilling of our industries and our work force. That is not an argument to deprive any other region of its success, but it is a call for the Government to adopt a more sensitive and strategic approach to the needs of bodies in the English regions that are trying to do their best for their communities in the absence of a strategic tier of regional government. A north-west regional development agency will go some way toward helping my region to champion its attractiveness and strengths to potential investors. Having said that, I welcome the statement of the Minister of State, Department of Trade and Industry, my hon. Friend the Member for Makerfield (Mr. McCartney), that the Government are working toward ""common UK guidelines"" for inward investment, which will address the concern that public money should not be used to finance competition between different parts of the country.""—[Official Report, 20 November 1997; Vol. 301, c. 281.] I agree with that statement. I do not want a wasteful Dutch auction between regions—I just want a level playing field. However, I am keen to participate in the redefinition of the shape of the playing field, as I am a firm believer in the need for a strategic tier of regional government in England. Such an authority would draw down powers from Whitehall and would operate according to the principle that local services should be decided and delivered at the most local level possible. That would reinforce the role of unitary local authorities, but allow for a regional body with responsibility for strategic issues such as the environment, transport, economic development and, of course, investment. Since becoming a Member of Parliament, I have worked hard with Salford city council to generate and create ""a Salford package"" with other social partners. I have been negotiating with representatives of major international investors from one of the more stable areas of south-east Asia, with a view to arranging a trade delegation to Salford next spring. That early experience has taught me that English areas such as Salford are at a disadvantage when it comes to grant aid and assistance, which tends to negate any arguments about best quality. If the investor is enticed to an area that can offer more attractive and all-important start-up grants and packages, that might suck existing employment from the disadvantaged area to the more advantaged area. In the long run, that cannot be to the benefit of our country as a whole, as it raises questions of fairness, equity, waste, economic planning, social exclusion and social cohesion and, indeed, democracy and governance. On an unusual, but related, matter, I am alarmed that few members of the business community or of the public have recognised the importance of addressing what has become known as the millennium time bomb. In simple terms,   that is the breakdown as we reach 2000 of current computer systems, because their processors cannot cope with dates falling after the turn of the century. That might lead to disasters throughout the world. I shall comment only on our Government's action in that respect and why it has potential implications for inward investment in the UK. The Government are to be congratulated on taking prompt action to address the problem by setting up the Action 2000 initiative. I am sure that the Government understand that we have now passed the awareness-raising stage and that we must now move on to finding and delivering solutions. Although a Government's ability to bring about such solutions is limited, they could nevertheless give a lead in setting up geographically based groups of interested partners in which best practice and new thinking can be shared. The crux of my statement is that if the UK can become accepted throughout the world as ""year 2000 safe"", in addition to the obvious benefit to our society in general, it might be a tremendous incentive to inward investment. In conclusion, I should say that this is not the first time I have attempted to make a speech in the House. I have made several such efforts—for example, I prepared a magnificent speech for last week's debate on hunting with hounds. If right hon. and hon. Members think that the right hon. Member for Maidstone and The Weald (Miss Widdecombe) made a fine speech in support of the Bill, I can tell them that mine would have been an exceptional and magnificent supporting effort. However, I was not lucky enough to be called and my speech ended up in the bin, as did all my previous attempts. As a result, the House has had to suffer my meagre contribution today. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for your patience and I thank hon. Members for theirs.
