gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will bear with me in my maiden speech if I seem somewhat parochial. I am deeply honoured to have this opportunity to address the House as the new Member for the Teesside constituency of Thornaby, particularly as I was born and bred in that area. As the constituency has a new name, I should explain that it has almost the same boundaries as the old constituency of Middlesbrough, West, which was represented most diligently by my predecessor, Mr. John Sutcliffe, from 1970 until the General Election and prior to that by Dr. Jeremy Bray, a former Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Technology, who is, I know, remembered with respect for his great ability both in the House and in the constituency. I should point out that, despite the description of my constituency as Teesside, Thornaby, two-thirds of the constituents I have the honour to represent live in Middlesbrough and one-third in Thomaby itself. It is a comprehensive constituency in that it contains a wide range of different types of housing, both old and new, a new town centre, and the old decaying centre of industrial housing. It contains light and heavy engineering, an industrial estate, a racecourse, and various leisure facilities on a comprehensive scale. I should mention, although I am not happy to do so, that Thornaby has not been able to avoid that plague of modem urban areas which has hit so many parts of the country; namely, planning blight. There are three particular areas in the constituency where I intend to devote a considerable amount of my time and energy to help alleviate the hardship and distress caused by developments. The first is where the constituency is being carved in half by the new North-South trunk road, the A19. That has had a disastrous effect on the residents in the Ayresome Ward in the constituency.  The second is in the middle of Middlesbrough, where the polytechnic is being redeveloped. The third is in the old part of Thornaby, where terrible uncertainty and insecurity are being caused and dreadful housing conditions have resulted from the lack of a decision on the future route of the A66. As the House will no doubt realise, this last weekend has been one of great rejoicing on Teesside, particularly in my constituency, because it is the home of Middlesbrough Football Club at Ayresome Park. As a result of Saturday's victory, Middlesbrough will be returning to the First Division of the Football League after an absence of 20 years. As a long-standing supporter. I am delighted It is a great pleasure to congratulate the first team squad on its magnificent performance. For Jackie Charlton in his first season of management it is a great achievement. He has won the respect and admiration of all Teessiders and footballers throughout the country for the tremendous progress that he has been able to achieve in one season. But it has not been all good news for my constituents over the past few weeks. I should like to turn for a moment to the Draconian increases in the rates that have been recently thrust upon them, and to plead for action to relieve them. There is intense anger at the size of the increases announced on Teesside. I have on the bench beside me five petitions containing the signatures of approximately 10,000 constituents. They were brought together in a few days after the announcement of the rate increase. In Thornaby rates are going up from 47·7p to 76p; in the Middlesbrough area from 47·7p to 74·2p, an increase of about 60 per cent. I must express our gratitude to the Secretary of State on his decision to change the basis of the rate support grant, because we are one of the areas to have benefited—Thornaby by 2p and Middlesbrough by 4p. However, like Oliver Twist, I must ask for more. Teesside is in a unique situation. Most of my constituents regard the reorganisation of local government on Teesside as a complete waste of time and money forced upon an unwilling electorate by the previous Government. Teesside County Borough Council is being split into three   district councils and a new county council. In other words, the administrative cost of local government in the area is being increased, because three councils have to administer local government. This follows reorganisation in the opposite direction in 1968, when we had a Middlesbrough Council, Stockton Council, and Eston Council, and so on. They were brought together into one Teesside Borough Council. Now it is being split and forced to go back to three district councils and a new county council. My constituents say, and I say with them, that if Whitehall wants reorganisation, Whitehall can pay for it. On top of the massive cost of reorganisation, other massive increases have brought about the overall 60 per cent. increase in the rates—rising debt charges, the rising costs of services and supplies, and rising staff charges. I hope that during the course of the debate somebody will point out who is responsible for some of the increases that local government has had to bear. There is intense anger on Teesside that some local government officers are being awarded salary increases way outside anything that residents themselves can receive. I hope that such decisions, which have been taken nationally, and the costs incurred by the local authority but over which it has no control, will be considered by the Secretary of State, and that careful consideration will be given to the case that we shall put to him. The Minister of State has agreed to meet a deputation of my hon. Friends and representatives of the local councils from Teesside. After that meeting, I hope that our councils will consider the progress that they have made and any action necessary to ensure that the rate burden is not levied at its present intolerable level. In one way or another the ratepayers of Teesside must be given relief.
