gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate and to record my pleasure at the contents of the Gracious Speech. It is an especial pleasure to follow the hon. Member for Lichfield (Michael Fabricant). Lichfield is a beautiful cathedral city, which I know well and visit often to meet close personal friends. I am also pleased to follow my hon. Friend the Member for South Shields (Mr. Miliband) because I was born in Gateshead in south Tyneside. I owe a great deal to that town and community, which reminds me of the community that I am now proud to represent: Wrexham. Labour has delivered for Wrexham, which has progressed greatly in the past few years. In preparing my speech, I was interested to read the maiden speech that my predecessor, Dr. John Marek, made in 1983. He said that unemployment in Wrexham stood at 20 per cent. The town was in the middle of momentous change. The coal and iron industries--the rock on which the community was built--were about to be fatally undermined by a callous and short-sighted economic policy. In 1983, my predecessor remarked that the people of Wrexham wanted to work but that no work was to be found. Much anxiety has been expressed about the low turnout at the general election. It has been said that voters believed that Governments are all the same and that politics does not affect people's lives. I disagree. The people of Wrexham have now been given the chance to get on; previous Governments did not give them that chance. Governments change lives, for good or ill. Politicians must not hesitate to make that point and urge our electors to remember how things were and how they have changed through Government action. The events of the past four years show that when a Government build the right foundations, Wrexham people are ready to seize new opportunities and compete in a changing world. Unemployment was 20 per cent. in Wrexham in 1983; it was 3.3 per cent. in May 2001. That is testament to the people of the town, who have shown themselves ready and willing to adapt, learn and work in a transformed economy, and to a Government who have created a stable economy in which business and industry can thrive. As someone who has run a small business, I know the importance of stability, low interest rates and the ability to plan ahead. I also know, however, that the biggest asset of any business or town is its people. That is where Wrexham shows its mettle. The town has a strong civic pride. It has the qualities of a Labour town: it is resilient, welcoming and open. It demands fairness and it wants the chance to get on. My first constituency engagement after my election was a community litter pick, which was enjoyable. It introduced me to an interesting lady who was well over 70. She spoke not with a Wrexham accent, but a southern African accent. While picking litter with her, we chatted about the length of time she had been in Wrexham. She said that she had been there for four months, and that she was there with her daughter and her granddaughter, who was four years old. She said that they had arrived in Britain from Zimbabwe four months earlier with seven suitcases. Their farm there had been taken away from them. They had arrived back in Britain and come to Wrexham because her late husband had fought in the battle of Britain and had had a friend who lived in the town. As a result of that connection, the British Legion in Wrexham welcomed this lady. The local authority found a flat for her in the town and the British Legion decorated and furnished it. That is how Wrexham treated one asylum seeker. That shows what Wrexham is like to the outside world, and it shows the strength of its community. Wrexham knows, however, that, in the modern world, it must continue to progress and to change. It knows that skills development and a willingness to learn hold the key to more prosperity. Colleges in the town are now working with industry to develop the work force Wrexham needs to attract the best industries and build further prosperity, because people there understand that prosperity is the key to attacking the problems of poverty and drug-related crime that still exist in the community. I worked with teenage drug addicts, as a lawyer representing them. I remember one 14-year-old who had committed 23 house burglaries to feed a heroin habit. I also remember the face of his mother who always came with him to court. Crime has many victims in many different guises. I welcome the work carried out in towns such as Wrexham to help those victims, and I welcome the measures in the Queen's Speech to make those who profit from their misery pay proper penalties. The work of my predecessor, Dr. John Marek, has played an important part in dealing with constituency problems in Wrexham for the past 18 years. This was very evident to me as I knocked on doors in the town. I heard from many people about his diligence and about the work that he had carried out on their behalf. I can best pay tribute to him by striving to uphold the same standards. I would like to end on a personal note. I sought election to this House because I believe that it can change our country for the better. I hope that I have the skills to contribute to bring about that change. If I have, it is because I have benefited from those who have taught me and argued with me over the years. I thank them; they know who they are. But above all, I wish to thank my parents, who have supported me and given me the chance to get on. For me, being a Labour Member of Parliament is about striving to give all people the chances that I have had.
