gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to second the Amendment. Like my hon. Friend the Member for Wavertree (Mr. Tilney), I must crave the indulgence of the House. I break in upon its deliberations at so early a stage only because, like my hon. Friend, I have had experience of this particular subject as a member of the Territorial Army. I should like to assure the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War that my comments are meant essentially in a helpful manner and not in any critical form. I take courage in making them since he has been at the War Office only as long as I have been in this House. Reference is made in the Amendment, and has been made by my hon. Friend, to publicity. I should like to deal with this matter because I think that in this respect we have had a lamentable failure. It is the more lamentable because there is evidence that the War Office, under the direction of the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor, carried out a survey of the problems involved in Territorial Army recruiting. It was quite clear from that survey where the main lines of recruitment must be and where the main obstacles existed. Yet there is no evidence in all the publicity that any attention has been paid to those conclusions. The first Territorial Army poster that I recall was of a young man putting on his gaiters, a laborious and tiresome procedure at the best of times. The second poster illustrated two persons whom, one assumed, the Territorial Army would be glad to have in its ranks. I can only describe them, as my unit did, as the burglar and the spiv. It must be made quite plain that publicity is not just a question of putting up posters, even if they are good posters. Publicity is a question of making the right appeal in the right place. The right place, as the right hon. Gentleman has made clear, is to the veterans who fought in the last war. I submit that no real appeal has been made to them. In our publicity we must try to convince them that it is better to place their services at the disposal of the Territorial Army than to regale their friends in public houses with stories of what they did in El Alamein and on the beaches of Normandy. Quite clearly, there is resistance on their part—and a very reasonable resistance—because many of them have served six years in the Forces and they think that that is quite enough. Their reaction to all the appeals is, in fact, ""Nuts,"" and whereas that might have been a satisfactory answer to the right hon. Gentleman in his previous office, it is hardly satisfactory now. Secondly, there is a very formidable obstacle in their wives. They say, ""You have been away for six years and you are now going to stay at home."" Although there may be some men who are very pleased to find a good excuse for being away at least one night a week, there are not enough. We have got to make a real endeavour to bring the wives of the veterans of the last war on to our side. That can be done by telling them that it is better to let these men go for a short time now than to run the risk of losing them again in another catastrophe. I also believe—we have found it so in our unit—that a great deal can be done on the premises to encourage the support of the wives of the men who serve in the unit. There is another source of recruitment to which a certain amount of reference has been made, and it was the source of recruitment of the Territorial Army before the war. I refer to those in the younger age group who are about to go up for National Service. I know that this has been discussed before in the House, but I believe that far more could be done to encourage young men to enlist in specific Territorial units before they go forward for their National Service, so that they can get ahead of the game and, as it were, peg out their claim before they go up for what must be for many of them a very real ordeal. There is another source of recruitment which I would commend to the right hon. Gentleman, particularly because of the experience we had in 1939. I refer to the staffs. There are today many men who served in high places on the staffs and who are unable to play their part in the Territorial Army for reasons of time. Means should be found to give them staff training at the present time so that they could be called upon quickly to perform those duties in a grave emergency. If they are not called forward we shall have exactly the same state of affairs as last time. There will be a general call to the Service units for staff officers, and those of us with any experience know what that means. The commanding officer looks round to see who is least indispensable, and that person goes on the staff. The unit subsequently suffers. I am making no personal reference to those hon. Members who may have been in high positions on the staff. The next point I wish to make concerns the question of incentive. ft has already been touched upon by my hon. Friend the Member for Wavertree. I hope I shall not be regarded as being controversial if I say that we must provide in the Territorial Army far greater incentive than we do at present. I am not suggesting, and no Territorial would suggest, that we should introduce the profit motive. There has never been any question of anyone making anything out of the T.A. and escaping a court-martial. Nevertheless, the principle which has already been laid down must be adhered to—that no man should lose through joining the T.A. I am glad that reference has already been made to the question of the nationalised industries and their failure, so far, to give a lead in the matter of holidays, and I am glad the Secretary of State for War gave us an assurance that employers would be encouraged to encourage their employees to join the Territorial Army. I hope that encouragement will be real and forceful. That is all very well, but I detected in the right hon. Gentleman's speech a certain complacency and satisfaction which perhaps—and I hope this will not be regarded as impertinent—he will not feel when he has been in his office a little longer. I am not at all satisfied with the situation which persists in the Territorial Army, nor are my colleagues. One of the reasons is that there is a growing feeling that the Territorial Army is becoming the Cinderella of the Service. It is no good claiming that that is not the case when one sees the situation which exists with regard to training conditions and equipment. In the present Territorial Army  we have a completely different situation from any which has existed before. We have war-tried men who know the potentialities and restrictions of equipment. It is no compliment to them—indeed, it is the height of unwisdom—to hand out to them obsolete equipment. It is very dangerous to do so because when the National Service man arrives, assuming that he has been trained on modern equipment, he will know more about the equipment than does the Territorial who is supposed to instruct him. There is no worse situation for any instructor, officer or N.C.O. than to find that he knows less than the man below him. Although I realise that there is a considerable problem here, I regret very much that we no longer have Regular adjutants in Territorial units. I believe some units, a small minority, have them, but the majority do not have Regular adjutants. The existence of a Regular adjutant was a most invaluable link with the Regular Army and I think the Minister would be well advised to restore the appointment at the earliest possible moment. Further, and, again, I am aware of the problems of the Regular Army, we are not getting the right standard of instructor in the Territorial Army. Indeed, we are having to instruct the instructors who are sent to us. I can understand that manpower dictates it, but it is something which does not conduce to efficiency in the Territorial Army. I do not want to be parochial, but I must say I am very concerned with antiaircraft. Today, anti-aircraft is by no means in the high standard of training it should be in, and in view of the fact that the Secretary of State has already said that anti-aircraft work will be a high Territorial commitment, I regard this situation as very serious. There is one great problem which we, in anti-aircraft, have always had to face and that is the provision of air co-operation for our shooting. If men are to go to camp for 14 days, which is the longer period required of the A.A., to achieve their proficiency on the guns, they must be assured that, weather conditions permitting, they will be able to shoot. Today, the availability of aircraft is such that they cannot be given that assurance. It is very difficult when commanding officers are expected to take their men to camp under such restrictions. One further point remains on the question of incentives, and that is the prestige of the Territorial Army in public functions. Reference has been made to the ""T"" which Territorial units wore before the war. We have heard that there is a consensus of opinion in the Territorial Army against the wearing of the ""T,"" but I honestly believe that a wise Government would overrule the view that the ""T"" should not be worn. I would press very strongly for the restoration of the ""T"" for Territorial Army units. It has been a matter of considerable pride and has been greatly valued by very many people. I do not wish to cry over spilt milk, although it was spilt from a high level, but in connection with anti-aircraft I believe that the denial of the 1939–45 Star has had a grave effect on recruitment. There is a growing feeling that A.A. is nothing more or less than Civil Defence in battle. That is not decrying the role of Civil Defence, but, on the other hand, it is no incentive for a man to join antiaircraft units. I have noticed the absence of the Territorial Army from many great public functions. I think the T.A. should always be represented at such functions, because that is the role of the citizen army. I think more glamour should be given to the men of the Territorial Army and that the sooner the No. 1 dress is issued to the Territorials the better. I believe that what has to be done is something far more radical than has been envisaged in this Debate so far. A new spirit is required in the attitude of the Government to the Territorial Army. At the time the Territorial Army was reconstituted we heard from various authorities that a new Army was coming into being which would have three equal partners—the Regular, the Territorial and the National Service man. That is a very fine conception which I, for one, believe could be made to work, but I was very surprised today to hear from the Minister that the future plan upon which we are working envisaged the indefinite continuation of National Service. I should like to feel that the stepping up of our voluntary force would be so successful that eventually we could dispense with conscription, because conscription is not an aspect of our Service which is in keeping with the traditions of this country nor is it economically sound. I  realise that at present such a step would be impossible, but it would appear from the plans put forward this afternoon that it is the intention to base all our future organisation upon it, and that I regret extremely. The Regular Army must have a new approach to the Territorial. I fear that Regulars today do not appreciate the problem of the Territorial to its full extent and that there is a tendency to patronise the Territorial in the presence of National Service men. If our future Army is to be effective, then all three parts must be fully co-ordinated. I urge the Minister to do everything he can to build the prestige, efficiency and traditions of the Territorial Army, because they are in keeping with the finest traditions of this country.
