gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to address the House for the first time. The subject of video recordings is of great interest to me and it is one on which I have received nothing but support from my constituents. Before I consider the Bill I should like to tell the House something about my constituency. I have the honour to represent Edmonton in north London, which, since local government reorganisation in the 1960s, has been part of the London borough of Enfield. However, I have no hesitation in saying that, despite a successful association  with two other local authorities—Enfield and Southgate —Edmonton maintains a distinct character, identity and mind of its own. For those hon. Members who do not know Edmonton, it is best located by reference to the north circular and great Cambridge roads which are frequently the subject of traffic reports on the radio. It also has the advantage of open space in the Lee valley to the east. The home of Spurs football club at White Hart lane is just over our boundary to the south. The majority of local households are owner-occupied. There has been a welcome growth in owner-occupation as a result of the sale of council houses. Such sales are not new to Enfield but started before the right to buy was introduced. Edmonton also has a sizeable community which originally joined us from the new Commonwealth countries such as Cyprus, the Caribbean and the Indian sub-continent. I shall take an interest in the welfare of those communities and represent them in the House. Edmonton is not a mere residential suburb of London. It has a sizeable industrial base, which includes such concerns as electrical and electronic engineering, furniture and other manufacturing and a growing service sector. I give notice that I shall also pursue in the House, the interests of local industry and commerce not merely to protect local jobs—although that is important in itself—but to help maintain the important contribution that local industry makes to our export effort. I am deeply conscious of the honour of being elected to represent Edmonton, as it is more than 50 years since a Conservative Member was returned in 1931. I also have the honour of succeeding an hon. Member who gave unselfish service to his constituents and the House in the nine years that he was here. I refer, of course, to my predecessor who is now the noble Lord Graham of Edmonton. It is ironic that I should be paying tribute to him in a debate on video nasties as he is the very reverse of a nasty. They are not empty words when I tell the House of the well-deserved respect with which he is held in Edmonton. He has been a tireless fighter for local causes and for his party. It is a great honour for him and a reflection on the work that he did in this House that, since going to another place, he has become a Front Bench spokesman. I know from experience how well he was respected in the House because of the number of my right hon. and hon. Friends who have tempered their congratulations of my election victory with regret that he is no longer here. I shall turn from the demonstrably nice to the clearly nasty. I am no friend of censorship or restrictions on the freedom and liberty of citizens. They may enjoy what they will in their private lives but there comes a point in a democratic society when we can no longer tolerate certain behaviour and individual freedom must be subjugated to the greater public good. The free circulation of horror and violent, pornographic video recordings has a corrupting and evil influence on some members of society. It is a tragedy that young and impressionable minds should be corrupted by the linking of sex with fantasies of violence, mutilation and torture. However, it is not only the young who are at risk. Adults are also exposed to it and, in watching recordings of violent scenes, might find encouragement for the as yet unformed seeds of malevolent forms of fantasy in these widely available recordings. The fact that such recordings are seen on   domestic television screens helps to reinforce their respectability. There are good reasons why we need to take additional measures against them. An illustration of the impact of violent videos was given this week by Lord Chief Justice Lane in Cambridge. He referred to some crimes that come before the courts and said that their commission could be traced back to the availablility of pornographic and horrific literature and recordings. It might be asserted by some people that there are few such cases. I am sure that we would all say, ""Thank God for that"". However, the existence of just one case is sufficient reason for us to support the Bill. I shall now deal with public attitudes to video nasties. It is fortunate that we have the benefit of a recent survey that was conducted by Gallup Poll for the British Videogram Association Ltd. No doubt hon. Members are aware that the association broadly supports the principles of the Bill. Hon. Members might have seen selected use of the figures in that survey by the A. E. Trust which has circulated some observations on the Bill this week. Unfortunately, the trust has created a misleading impression as it claims that 92 per cent. of the public were not offended by video recordings that they had seen. That statement is not supported by the survey data, which show clearly that that 92 per cent. included a majority who had never seen a video and clearly could not therefore have been offended by one. However, the survey includes some information that is extremely relevant to the debate. For example, 15 per cent. of video tape hirers were found to have hired a tape by which they had been offended in the past three months. The survey also considered censorship and found that 41 per cent. of the public favoured censorship of all video recordings. An additional 22 per cent. favoured a more restricted censorship of video recordings with a sex and horror content. That adds up to 63 per cent. in favour of the censorship of videos with a sex and horror content. Those results were repeated when only the owners of video machines were asked. A clear majority of video owners, which is more than 20 per cent of households —one of the highest percentages in the world—is in favour of restrictions on the circulation of video recordings containing sex and horror. It is clear from the latest information available that the public support the measures in the Bill, contrary to the impression that was circulated in some areas. However, we have heard that in Committee there will be room for debate about the exact measures that we hope will eventually be enacted. I am not convinced that there is a direct relationship between the grading and licensing of films for public cinemas and recordings that are taken into private homes, as has already been said by several hon. Members. Cinemas and private cinema clubs can control access to films and are accountable to the courts if they do not do so. The same cannot be said for video recordings once they have been purchased or hired by members of the public. After that they are freely available to anyone, and it is not enough for us to rely upon the responsible behaviour of adults in preventing circulation to young and impressionable minds. Nor can it be shown that pirating will not occur, because pirating is already a great problem in the video industry, as it is with the printed word. A recent study by Mackintosh International estimated that 46 per cent. of the total business value of video cassettes could be attributed to illegitimate products — those obtained by copying or by pre-release. The  survey showed that 50 per cent. of current video users have knowingly watched a pirated tape, and that 66 per cent. of video users are not concerned about seeing a pirated film. There is a free attitude to the availability of pirated cassettes. I am anxious that the penalty for possession of such tapes to supply them should be a real deterrent. I hope that the Committee will consider the possibility of a prison sentence in addition to the £10,000 maximum fine. The sum of £10,000 may seem a lot to hon. Members, with their salaries, but it is little compared with the massive profits that can be made from this objectionable trade. I am grateful to hon. Members for listening so patiently to my first speech in the House and I ask them to support the Bill.
