gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) will forgive me if I do not follow him very closely in the four interesting but to me rather unpersuasive arguments which he has been developing. I wish that I had been longer in the House than I have because I should then have been able to refer to the pleasure which I know that more experienced and wiser heads than mine on this side of the House felt when the hon. Gentleman returned to the House. I appeal to the House for the tolerance which it extends to a maiden speaker. I begin by qualifying that request in two ways which, like the Radcliffe Committee's Report, pull in two different directions. Obviously, any maiden speaker who seeks to intervene in a debate on a subject of such complexity as this must have a reasonable excuse for doing so. My excuse is that I have myself, throughout the whole period covered by the Radcliffe Committee's   Report, been in business both in the square mile of the City and outside it. I have, therefore, seen taken and have myself participated in taking many decisions which have been affected by factors which are dealt with in the Report and in ways upon which the Report has much to say. Apart from that, because there has been a certain amount of anti-economist talk during the debate, I would say, to redress the balance, that I myself, although I am not an economist, have throughout the years found a singular fascination in that not always sombre discipline which has attracted a mind which has been dragged up in the classics and in philosophy. The reason that pulls the other way and for which I would ask the House for its particular tolerance is this. It springs from the nature of the Report itself and the gloss which hon. Members opposite have put upon the Report by the Amendment which they have tabled, and I am afraid that I shall not succeed in making a speech as wholly deficient in intellectual provocation or indeed of any intellectual content at all, as I should have wished to make on so bridal an occasion. If, therefore, I unwillingly and unwittingly give pain in anything that I have to say to hon. Gentlemen opposite, I would hasten to disclaim any immunity to which my maidenhood would otherwise entitle me and I will take what is coming to me and try not to be too flummoxed by it. We are debating a document which will influence action and decisions and practice over many years to come and upon which those who follow us in these matters will be themselves brought up and educated. The sole point which I want to make about it and which I want to try to emphasise tonight is that the Report, like many another great document is full of danger if it is not properly used. This is a point which my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer took up early in his speech. It is full of danger if it is not properly used, and it is of these dangers that I wish to speak. I follow my right hon. Friend the Member for Flint, West (Mr. Birch) in his attitude towards the unanimity of this Report. I think that its dangers spring very largely from the unanimity of that very diverse Committee, because  although the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huyton (Mr. Wilson) said that it was rather a Committee of moderate men on both sides, it seems to me to be a Committee of men who in fact differ very widely indeed in their experience, cast of thought and preconceptions. It seems to spring from that unanimity that this Report has the potential dangers which it has. Partly, of course, the results of that unanimity have been wholly good. In particular they have been good because of the great emphasis of the Report on exposition, which is one of its most valuable features. This unanimity has meant that the Report, instead of being a consistent guide to action written from a single point of view, is instead a majestic corpus of interwoven skeins and strands of thought and opinion which is by no means consistent with itself. I think that lack of consistency has concealed itself from hon. Members opposite because of the lucid and often noble simplicity of the langauge in which the whole of the Report has been clothed. If this Report chances to be dug up centuries hence, out of the preserving sands of Alexandria, or out of the London clay, the scholars of those times will I believe have no difficulty in agreeing that the Report was the work of many hands and that it was spread over various eras of British history; and they will conclude that at some later period it was compressed by a single brilliant but historically rather vague stylist who conceived that it all referred to the same time and place in British history. There will be some German, some American, and, it may be, even some British scholars who will be able very clearly to distinguish with great certainty between the various main opinions which at the various different periods made up this Report as we know it. I think that in the first place they will isolate a towering figure which I am tempted to call the ""Old Prophet""—not ""the old profit"". He is a man with a mountainous conviction, with the fiery eloquence and almost complete lack of intellectual flexibility and subtlety of former times. He is a man whose god is liquidity, who smites hip and thigh the heretics who believe it can be useful   in certain circumstances to curb spending by operating upon the money supply. These scholars of the future will note how the ""Old Prophet"", thus handicapped, seemed to have made rather a hash of the monetary measures in his own day so that it appeared from the Report that he eventually lost his faith. He denied that the Bank Rate had any great significance, at any rate for grownup people, and he proclaimed that monetary measures failed to keep the system in smooth balance and were in any case only the handmaids of other measures, both fiscal and physical. In sharp contrast to the work of the ""Old Prophet"", which is such an important part of this Report, I think that these future students will discern another figure which strides through the pages of this Report. I only wish that the hon. Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. G. Thomas) was present in the Chamber because he is well qualified to help me in a difficulty of this sort, but I should like to call that figure the ""deutero-Isaiah""—statesmanlike, sophisticated and calm, and, if I may put it in this way, Conservative in his views. He sees clearly throughout the Report the immense force of monetary measures. He knows the practical power of the Bank Rate to raise the reserves upon occasion. He knows clearly the capacity of a change of gear in interest rates to shake people into a change of economic course. He knows the efficacy of moderate monetary measures—these are all quotations from the Report itself—in avoiding the occasion for calamitous restrictions. The ""deutero-Isaiah"" would have made a good Chancellor. It may be that these students of the future will descry that he was Chancellor, or he may have been two Chancellors, from the year 1957 onwards. The ""Old Prophet"" of liquidity, the old anti-Bank Rate prophet, surely belongs in spirit at any rate to an earlier decade in our history. In the Report as we now have it, there is certainly more of the ""Old Prophet's"" work than there is of the work of this ""deutero-Isaiah"". He it is who seeks to unhinge the delicate relationship between the Treasury and the Bank of England, which is surely a subtle and advanced relationship if we compare it  with the relationship between any other Government and its central bank any where we care to look. He seeks to unhinge it by trying to subordinate the Governor in the determining of the Bank Rate to a largely Departmental committee chaired by the Economic Secretary. He it is who seeks to wean the local authorities hack from the discipline and from the skills of the market—because that surely plays an important part so far as local authorities are concerned. It is precisely the training of their financial officers in these skills which is one of the most important things. It is he who, to my mind, more importantly and more controversially denies in the Report—on grounds which, I say with the deepest respect, seem to be both flimsy and insufficiently argued—the suggestion that under certain circumstances the rate of interest weapon might be used in future still more effectively than it has been in the past. If it were to be used still more violently in either direction than was the case in the past, that is a possibility which seems to me of the greatest importance in the future management of our affairs. That seems to be passed over in the Report in a rather superficial manner. It is dealt with only by an argument which is really connected with the desirability of stability in Treasury bills and in other Government paper. It does not seem to be dealt with in anything like the depth and profundity which its importance would seem to require. Yet it is certainly the great value of this Report that to each of its major aberrations it also provides and contains within itself an answer, very often a better and more accessible answer, than can be found anywhere else. Its danger lies solely in the fact that there may be this tremendous temptation—I am sure it is a temptation from which hon. Members opposite will not refrain; they have not done so in this debate—to extract from it certain aberrant recommendations and to disregard the careful and intellectually honest antidotes to those aberrant recommendations, which are packed up with them in the Report. There will come a time when hon. Members opposite will be in power again and, if this Report is then used in that kind of way, it will tend in a serious way to obscure what is surely the very important   and practical lesson—indeed the outstanding practical lesson—of the years 1951 onwards. Is not this the situation? In 1951 we began tentatively and not without doubt, not without pain, to revive the use of monetary measures, upon which it cannot be denied as a fact of history that a great deal of our past prosperity has depended. In that process we made mistakes, some of which were quite serious. It was surely not until 1957 that we really, for the first time since the war, used monetary measures, in two very important ways; in their full strength and in their proper harmony with other measures which bear upon the economy. We used them to meet the serious crises which had several times recurred. The result of that has been—this is the point which it seems to me that the Report has to face, and which it does not really fact—not simply to weather the recurrent crises but to establish our prosperity and our economic power in the world upon a new footing of strength and security, which there is at present every empirical reason to believe is of a quite lasting nature compared with what went before. I have not seen it anywhere suggested, either in the Radcliffe Report or elsewhere, that results equal to this, or better, could have been achieved in any other way than by the use of monetary measures in the way in which they were used in 1957, and have been used since. If that be so, surely we are right if we conclude that monetary measures in future will continue to play a most important part in the direction of the economy and indeed a part for which there is no substitute in the management of the economy. Surely hon. Members on both sides of the House will be right if they read the Report in that way and in the light of that experience and of that knowledge.
