gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That this House welcomes the Government's support for the Scottish Tourist Board's plans for the development of the tourist industry, and calls attention to the opportunities that these are likely to provide for the growth of other industries in the Highlands. This is the first time, Mr. Speaker, that I have had the honour to address this House, and I ask for the indulgence which all hon. Members extend to those who have newly joined them. It is with mixed emotions that I have risen to move this Motion. I am acutely aware of a nervousness which, I know, hon. Members will understand and forgive, but I claim a sense of pride also because I stand here as the representative of Perth and East Perthshire, a constituency which, as hon. Members will recognise, is second only to their own. This pride is heightened by the fact that I follow Sir Alan GommeDuncan, whose name is honoured in this House. The Motion welcomes the Government's support for the Scottish Tourist Board's plans for the development of the tourist industry, and calls attention to the opportunities that these are likely to provide for the growth of other industries in the Highlands. As hon. Members know, these proposals spring from a survey conducted last summer by Mr. Hugh Fraser, at the joint invitation of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Chairman of the Scottish Tourist Board, into the possibility of expanding the tourist industry in the Highlands of Scotland. At this point, I should like to draw attention to a matter of definition. As far as I know, there is no precise statutory definition of the area of the Highlands, and the description ""the Highlands"" is often used as a synonym for the seven crofter counties. As a result, some parts of Scotland that lie within the topographical Highland line, and share many of the problems of the seven crofter counties, are strictly excluded from plans of development that apply to the more limited crofter county definition. Let me give an example. Glenshee, in my own constituency, surely is in the Highlands, but it lies far beyond the boundary laid down for administrative purposes. Similarly, hon. Members may go further west and take the road to the Isles, but they must pass Loch Tummel and Loch Rannoch and, indeed approach Lochaber, before the Scottish Office will recognise their entry into the Highlands. I suggest that perhaps it would be less confusing if the seven crofter counties were referred to as the seven crofter counties and the description ""the Highlands"" reserved for the mass of land that lies within the traditional Highland line. It is in this sense that the words ""the Highlands"" are used in the Motion. I was glad to learn in a letter which my right hon. Friend was good enough to send me that the Scottish Tourist Board's proposals for the development of the tourist industry will extend beyond the rigid crofter county definition and that a certain amount of elasticity will be observed. I hope that in time it will be possible to extend the area further, because there are many tourist attractions in, for example, the Highlands of Perthshire and Aberdeenshire. The Scottish Tourist Board's plan has been warmly welcomed by the Government and it is taking effect with remarkable speed. It is a progressive scheme in that it is to proceed area by area throughout the Highlands. It is sensibly based on the co-operation of hoteliers and local authorities within those areas. It will be financed by a new company registered this week which will draw its resources from private enterprise. In addition, the Board is to receive a special Government grant of £45,000, to be spread over three years, for the administration of the scheme. It is good to know that this area by area policy has been welcomed by those on the spot. This is sound commercial practice, and if the plan succeeds in the first two experimental areas it can rapidly be extended to other parts of the Highlands, with whatever modifications the experiments may show to be necessary. Already, a plan for improving the appearance and amenities of Newton-more has been announced, for which the Board is assured of the enthusiastic support of the local people. The bodies   responsible for the public services in the area are also actively co-operating with the Board. The new company will make money available on loan for the building of hotel extensions and the like. Tomorrow, a meeting is to be held in Bonar Bridge to announce the new look plan for the second of these two experimental areas. The plan represents a tremendous step forward. All those engaged in it should have the fullest support. The Highlands offer many attractions to the holiday-maker. It is magnificent country, with a variety and contrast of scenery that is beyond description. The Highlands provide a splendid setting for the sport and entertainment which the country now provides in abundance, and new opportunities for pony trekking and ski-ing are rapidly being developed. Glenshee, near my home, attracts nearly a thousand skiers each weekend. Lochearnhead is becoming equally popular for water ski-ing in the summer. The climate is better than is commonly believed. Some of the driest and sunniest places in Britain are in Scotland. However, if I am to avoid Dr. Johnson's charge that a Scotsman loves Scotland better than truth, I should add that some of the wettest places are in Scotland, also. Scotland has not the accommodation for visitors which is necessary. There is not enough hotel accommodation, nor can some of the hotels offer the standard of comfort 'that is necessary today. The Board's plan will lead to the building of some hotel extensions and will certainly help hoteliers to improve their standards. In addition, the plans provide for the creation of caravan parks, thus catering for the many families who either cannot afford to stay in a hotel, or want to enjoy a simpler and more independent form of holiday. Nevertheless, if we are to meet the demand that already exists or can be created, I believe that we shall need twice or three times as many hotels in the Highlands as there are today. Also, the tourist season must be extended. I hope that progress with the present scheme will lead in time to a larger and more ambitious programme. The need for this advance is clear, because the development of tourism in the Highlands can do a great deal to ease the problem of unemployment. The problem of un-  employment in the industrial areas of Scotland is well known, and special measures have been adopted not only to attract new industry but to widen the whole basis of industrial activity in Scotland. Unemployment is also relatively high in the Highlands, but there the nature of the problem is different. The population is small and scattered and there are few large towns which can offer the facilities that major industry requires. The future prosperity of the Highlands surely depends on the comprehensive development of the tourist trade, agriculture and forestry. The growth of the tourist trade can have a wide effect on the country's economy. I take only two examples; it can provide a local outlet for farm produce and also encourage the creation of small enterprises. Last year, more than 5 million people visited Scotland and brought with them a trade worth more than £50 million. This flow of new wealth goes far beyond the hotels and shops. It brings much benefit to agriculture, and this was shown by the records of food purchases of 14 hotels during 1958. Their combined purchases included nearly 25,000 lb. of butter, 60,000 gallons of milk, more than 180,000 lb. of beef and mutton, more than half a million lb. of potatoes and 50,000 dozen eggs. These were the purchases of just 14 hotels—and there are nearly 5,000 hotels and boarding houses in Scotland. They must represent a large and growing market for Scottish farm produce. As tourist traffic grows, so do opportunities for other forms of employment. Trade is created, for example, for new garages, or perhaps a new laundry, and new markets are opened up for tweeds, tartans, souvenirs and other products, that can and should be locally made. Of course, small enterprises of this kind may employ only a handful of people, but they can make a world of difference to the small communities of the Highlands. There is another important aspect of the Scottish Tourist Board plan, and hon. Members may agree that attention should be drawn to it. There are certain places in the Highlands, and, indeed, just outside the Highland line, which would be immeasurably helped by the introduction of light industry.   Development of this kind may be hampered, I believe, by a misunderstanding south of the Border of what life in Scotland is really like. For instance, it is not difficult to imagine a situation in which the head of some firm here is prepared to set up a branch in Scotland, but is turned from his purpose by the reluctance of his staff to make the move. I sometimes suspect that the image of Scotland in the minds of those who have not been there may be rather bleak, and that they would be more inclined to encourage a business extension into Scotland if they knew more of the country. The Tourist Board's plan will provide improvements in the social and general amenities of the areas selected for development. This will undoubtedly attract more people to the Highlands, and I believe that the more they come the more they will want to return, and the more inclined they may be to make their homes there. This could also have an important influence on the establishment of other new industries in other parts of Scotland. These are some of the reasons for the Motion, which I am glad to have had the opportunity of explaining to the House. I thank hon. Members for the courteous hearing that they have given me.
