gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for this opportunity to catch your eye because, although I had no wish to plunge in with my maiden speech whilst still flushed from the hustings, equally I have no wish to be left on the shelf. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Renfrewshire, East (Mr. Stewart) on the quality of his maiden speech, and express my warm appreciation of the advice I have had both from hon. Members and from the officers of the House as I take my first faltering steps here. I have the honour to represent the electors of Galloway, that most beautiful corner of South-West Scotland, with its rolling farm land, its sparkling waters, its hills and forests. It embraces two counties and the hearts of all who visit it. Indeed, with the holiday season approaching, Mr. Deputy Speaker, if you should find yourself at a loss—something I find hard to envisage—you could not do better than seek solace from the cares of your high office amid the villages and byways of bonny Galloway. During the last Parliament, Galloway was represented by Mr. George Thompson, whose assiduous work on behalf of individual constituents and whose tireless attention to the problems of Galloway have set me a fine example that it will be hard to follow, but I will do my best. Before that, for many years, Galloway was represented by Mr. John Brewis, who did much good and enduring work both for Galloway and for the cause of Europe. It is good to find that both men are still so well remembered and well regarded in this place. Galloway has many problems with which I shall not hesitate to burden the House on other occasions, although I venture to hope that some of them may soon begin to reduce in intensity as a result of the nation's decision on 3 May and the initiatives taken since then. My   reason for seeking to intervene in this debate, however, arises from an earlier decision taken by the electorate of Scotland on 1 March, in particular by the electors of Dumfries and Galloway region, which comprises my own constituency and that of my hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Monro), now the Minister with responsibility for sport. Dumfries and Galloway voted ""No"" in the referendum and did so overwhelmingly. On a 64 per cent. turnout, almost 50 per cent. more voters voted ""No"" than supported the implementation of the Scotland Act. I believe that one at least of the reasons for that was the fear that Galloway's interests could not be properly represented in an Assembly such as was proposed, in the face of the total domination of that Assembly by the central urban belt of Scotland. Indeed, the neighbouring Borders region, whose ""No"" majority was in identical proportion to that of Dumfries and Galloway, probably felt the same, for the seven large counties which comprise the south of Scotland would have had only seven Assembly men to contend with almost one hundred from the narrow industrial belt of the centre. Certainly, the voters of Galloway felt that they would have been still more remote from that Assembly in Edinburgh than ever they were from Westminster. As I seek to be non-controversial in my maiden speech, I shall try to restrict myself to the facts in this debate and leave to others such issues as the 40 per cent. rule, the bias of the constituency membership basis in favour of the Labour Party, the 5 to 1 imbalance of broadcasts proposed for the campaign, and the orchestrated campaign by the ""Yes"" side to exhort ""No"" supporters to abstain—surely a curious posture for those who honour democracy but one the logical consequences of which have rebounded conclusively on its perpetrators. I leave these contentious issues to others. I cannot, however, refrain from the comment that the recent plea by the Leader of the Opposition, echoed today by the right hon. Member for Glasgow, Craigton (Mr. Millan), to the effect that ""Look, could we not talk about this?""—surely the heart cry of the vanquished through the ages—might have carried more weight if he had made it before the  Scotland Bill was enacted, as my right hon. and hon. Friends constantly urged, instead of afterwards, when the Scottish electorate had demonstrated their lack of support for the Act. Instead, the Bill was pushed through on party lines, with no attempt to achieve broad agreement, and with a guillotine to stifle debate so that three-quarters of its clauses and schedules went undebated. Surely that is not a sound basis for a major constitutional change. But if that fact did not strike the promoters of the Bill, one might have hoped that the nature of the support they received for their measure would have given them pause, for the Bill's most persistent protagonists were not in the ranks of the Labour Party but in the ranks of the Scottish National Party, a party committed not to the devolution which the Leader of the Opposition said would strengthen the unity of the United Kingdom but to separation, which is in complete opposite, and to the break-up of the United Kingdom. Evidently it did not occur to the Labour Government that receiving support for this measure from the SNP was rather like getting the advice of a fox on the design and construction of a hen run. Indeed, one of the more bizarre aspects of the referendum campaign was the way in which the SNP so proudly claimed the credit for all the fuss that was being made over the government of Scotland. It did not seem to occur to it that that was rather like a mosquito claiming credit for the invention of DDT. Much was made during the passage of the Bill, and in the subsequent referendum campaign, of the extra layer of government, the additional bureaucracy, the extra cost, the arbitrary division of powers, the potential for conflict with Westminster, the expectations in the industrial and economic fields which would be raised but which could not be fulfilled, the dangers inherent in the funding arrangements and the consequent threat to local rates, and the weakening of Scotland's voice and possibly her number of representatives here. I am sure that all these arguments were valid and important, but to my mind the single overriding reason for repealing the Act now is that it is inherently flawed. The Act has a constitutional instability that runs right through it and jeopardises   the future integrity not only of the Assembly it proposes but also of this House and this Parliament. It is not rooted in the rich soil of constitutional devolution, in which overwhelming need blends with gradualism to produce sound organic growth, but rather it is spawned on the stony ground of expediency: conceived in panic, by opportunism out of appeasement—not the sort of pedigree of which this, the mother of Parliaments, could be proud. The basic and irredeemable flaw was that it would have created in this House two classes of MP. Surely it has for centuries been a cardinal tenet of our British democracy that as Members of this House we are all equal. Clearly, we occupy varying roles, and some of us are from time to time more equal than others; some are in government, some are in opposition; some hold office, some hold hopes of office; and some are in minority parties. All of us are hon. Members. Some hon. Members are also right, as well as honourable. Some right hon. Members are often downright wrong. I hope that that is not controversial. As Members of Parliament we all enjoy essentially equal rights and obligations and we all have a vote. Yet that is the basic principle that the Act would erode. The Scotland Act 1978 would create an Assembly in Edinburgh that would have, in effect, a separate Scottish Government with a separate first Minister and Executive. In this House we would have a situation in which the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom would also be the Prime Minister of England, but not of Scotland. We would have a situation in which this Parliament was also the Parliament of England but not of Scotland. English hon. Members sitting in this House could speak and vote on many matters affecting England but not Scotland. Scottish hon. Members sitting in this House could speak on many matters affecting England but not Scotland. When standing for re-election in our Scottish constituencies we could promise to fight, and vote, for better housing, better hospitals and better schools for England but not for Scotland. In short, the situation created by the Act would be untenable. Its central thrust strikes at the heart of the British parliamentary system. It undermines this House and it does Scotland no good. It  has been discredited and rejected. It cannot be reformed and it should now be struck from the statute book. That, of course, is not the end of the matter, and I was relieved to hear the constructive tone of the remarks of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State on the question of all-party talks and what might flow from them. There is, undoubtedly, a deep-rooted feeling that further change and improvement in the way we run our affairs are now needed. That feeling is perhaps vague and inarticulate, but that the mood is there is undeniable. We politicians in part created it and now we must respond to it. It is, in my view, entirely right that it is the Conservative Party that should give the lead in this for we are, and always have been, the natural party of devolution and of the diffusion of power away from the centre. That philosophy was, for example, made manifest in financial and economic terms in the recent proposals announced by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. So, too, in the constitutional field our record over many decades is unrivalled and unimpeachable. It is as true to our Conservative philosophy as it is to the needs of the time for us now to seek a further measure of devolution in the face of evergrowing size, complexity and centralisation, all of which are the natural allies of Socialism. The next step must not only conform to the real needs of the situation as opposed to imagined needs. It must, I submit, also pay heed to our belief in the merits of gradualism and continuity, and to our overriding commitment to preserve the integrity of this place and of the United Kingdom. In that context, and against the background of the report of the Select Committee on Procedure which is to be debated shortly in the House, it seems to me that nothing could be more appropriate or timely than to set up now, alongside the other Select Committees that are being proposed, a Select Committee on Scottish Affairs. It fits hand in glove with the general thinking of the House in other spheres and I believe that it would gain widespread acceptance. Such a Committee sitting in Edinburgh—where I feel sure accommodation could be found—to scrutinise all aspects of   Scottish administration, to check expenditure, to call to account the nationalised industries and to help to draft Scottish legislation, would not only reassure the Scottish people that their government was being carried out fastidiously, but, more importantly, it would avoid as a devolutionary measure the pitfalls of the Scotland Act 1978. It would stem from, and remain firmly rooted in, this House. I have detained the House too long, and if I have dipped my toe into the waters of controversy I hope that I shall be forgiven on the ground of strongly held convictions. In closing I stress that the clearing away of the debris of the Scotland Act 1978 is not an end of the matter but is the essential prerequisite to seeking a real lasting improvement in the quality and nature of Scotland's government, within the framework of a strengthened and reinvigorated United Kingdom. I believe that in overwhelmingly rejecting the Scotland Act and in sending me to this House, that is what the electorate of Galloway wanted. They reasserted Galloway's commitment to the United Kingdom. Our task now is to ensure that the United Kingdom goes forward economically, socially and constitutionally as one nation.
