gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
When I came into the Chamber tonight, I had no intention to offer my maiden speech, but, after sitting here for three-quarters of an hour, I feel impelled to intervene. Perhaps this is rather unworthy of me, since within these hollowed walls where such magnificent oratory has been heard over the centuries, any Member wishing to make his maiden speech ought at least to prepare it so as to do credit to this debating Chamber. However, I felt impelled to speak tonight because I have been most unhappy at the  remarks I have heard from hon. Members opposite. I speak from experience, not from a knowledge of what has passed earlier in the Chamber before I came in, having been a representative of the town of my birth for 18 years on my borough council. I served as councillor, as alderman and then as mayor of the town. Listening to some of the speeches from the benches opposite, I called to mind the words of the mover of the resolution that I be appointed mayor. It was seconded by the leader of the Labour group. He paid tribute to the work which I had done, as he has paid tribute since to other members who had served on the council and become mayor. There was no suggestion at that time that, because I did not live in my town, I was not able to serve the community as well as others. I have been surprised at the representations coming from hon. Members opposite. Implicit in the Redcliffe-Maud Report, which, I am given to understand, they support without qualification, there is envisaged a much wider sphere of local government than we have now. I repair an omission now and refer as is customary in these circumstances, to the constituency which I represent, Stockport, North. Stockport sits astride the River Mersey, half of it in the County Palatine of Lancaster, the other half in Cheshire. Stockport, North was represented in the House from 1964 to 1970 by Mr. Arnold Gregory, who, I believe, served the community exceedingly well. He served his electorate most diligently. He was unsparing in his efforts, and it was disappointing to find that that sort of effort should go unrewarded. He did not live in the town, but he served it well. That brings me to the point. It has been suggested that borough councillors who do not live in the borough area cannot serve adequately. I was born in the town. My business has been there from 1894 until the present day. We have paid thousands and thousands of pounds in rates to the town, as have other people. Yet, under the present suggestions, someone merely lodging in the town and working outside would still be eligible to sit on the council. It is a travesty of justice to suggest that people who work in the town but live outside should not serve on the council. Before long the boundaries of local government will be widened. During my experience on the borough council, regional boards have been set up embracing much greater areas than the borough I serve. How can it be suggested that people living in the overspill areas of the very boroughs in which they are serving cannot adequately serve the area? They have been driven out by sheer necessity, by the inadequacy of land for further development. Manchester, on whose periphery we live, has poured out thousands and thousands of people into the peripheral areas. It has been forced to do so because there were hardly any acreages left for people to live in. It has been suggested that it is wrong for those people to serve on the city council. During my life on council I have spent not less than 16 hours a day in the town. Other councillors who lived in the town but worked in the city of Manchester were rushing back at 6 o'clock at night to attend a 7.30 p.m. meeting of the borough council. Were they capable of giving better service than I was, spending 16 hours a day in that town? The people who could judge my adequacy or inadequacy were the electors. They are the people that can decide whether my surgery was adequate on a Saturday morning, whether my efforts on their behalf were adequate. I feel very honoured that my town returned me on every occasion for 17 years. I feel very satisfied that I was appointed a magistrate of the town, and that they honoured me by inviting me to be a Member of Parliament for the town, although I never lived in it from the age of seven. But it has been suggested by the Opposition tonight that I would not adequately represent those people because I live over the borough boundary. That is all wrong. I believe that hon. Members opposite do not have their hearts in this. It is petty-mindedness in the extreme. I am very sorry to say this in my maiden speech, but I cannot see any tangible reason for suggesting otherwise. On any count, the opposition does not stand up to examination. Hon. Members opposite want to see Redcliffe-Maud implemented. No doubt the Government will review local government boundaries in the not-too-distant future, and that will bring into the scope of many towns many  thousands of people who it is now suggested should not serve on the borough councils of those areas. If sincerity prevailed in this debate, every hon. Member would go into the same Lobby. When all is said and done, the electorate are the most important people to be discussed here this evening. What matters is what they want and what they demand, and they demand ability and service. They are not particularly interested in the geography. I would not mind my councillor living 40 miles away if he was efficient, capable and attentive to his responsibilities; but I would not be particularly interested if another councillor who lived down the street represented me badly. This is the difference. This matter is a storm in a teacup; it is an argument about nothing. I can only think that there is political significance in this. I sincerely hope that hon. Members opposite will be a little more charitable to this magnificent band of people who have served local government loyally and capably over the centuries.
