gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I crave the indulgence of the House, being the last maiden speaker from Wales. There may be a certain traditional reason why I am the last, but I doubt it very much, because the tradition in Nonconformist Wales has been that they generally kept their best preacher until the last. The text at my disposal is one which Welshmen particularly can exploit to full advantage and to which they can apply their natural eloquence. While I am conscious of the fact that in making my maiden speech in this House, I have the protection of the traditional privileges accorded to a Member on such an occasion, I have no desire whatever to exploit that protected position by inflicting myself upon the House. I am in rather a dilemma. I have no desire to arouse the displeasure of hon. Members opposite, and I have no conscious desire to embarrass Measures on this side of the House. I wish to focus the attention of the House on the question of the distribution of industry as it affects my constituency.  The name of Rhondda is not new to this House. The Rhondda is synonymous with conflict, gloom and despair, and, as the House knows, Rhondda has been, in our industrial history in the past 25 years, a twin community with Jarrow, which suffered in those terrible years of depression. Rhondda was at one time one-sided in its economy and that one-sided economy became a victim of the industrial depression—I refer to the coal mining industry. The manpower engaged in that industry in the Rhondda fell, in 25 years, from 50,000 to 14,000. During those years we lost 50,000 of our population, 50,000 of our most fertile groups, whom we exported to other parts of the country to be used as manpower there. We in Rhondda are very grateful for what has flowed from the operation of the 1945 Act. The effect of that Act has been to bring 21 new factories into Rhondda since the end of the war. That has brought about a great transformation, not only in the physical appearance of Rhondda but in the outlook and the expectation of our people. While I appreciated the benefits which have been bestowed on Rhondda as a result of the operation of the 1945 Act, it is my duty to call the attention of the House to what remains a persistently obstinate problem there. I will sum up, briefly, in a few statistics, the progress made during the operation of the 1945 Act. I would stress the importance that we attach to male employment in our mining valleys. We feel quite satisfied that provision has been made which will in a very short time absorb all the available female labour, but the obstinate problem is the absorption of the male unemployed. Progress to date in terms of factory absorption is that we have employed in all in these new factories, 1,952 male persons. I do not wish to discredit what has been achieved, but it is only proper that the facts should be well known. Of that 1,952, three firms which were established in the Rhondda before the war employ 473. The two Remploy factories employ 148 and the Grenfell factories—I will return to this point in a moment—are employing only 136. That reduces the net total of male personnel employed in these new factories   from 1,952 to 1,195. That is the net result in terms of the absorption of the unemployed in the Rhondda, in so far as the Government have relied upon the normal processes of rehabilitation in this mining valley. But the position is more serious than that. We are now in 1950, and the post-war honeymoon is over. We hear a great deal of criticism about the existence of queues, but queues are disappearing from the doorstep of the Board of Trade. I think the Minister will admit that already his Department are conscious of the fact that the position is hardening and resistance is now being shown by industrialists towards taking factory space in development areas. The faith we all had in the Grenfell factories has, I am afraid, been severely shattered by an examination of the results. Let me briefly remind the House of what the effect of the Grenfell factories has meant towards the solution of the problem in my constituency. We have three Grenfell factories. The first of these at Llwynypia, which is near Tonypandy, was the first Grenfell factory to be completed in South Wales. It employs at present, after two years, 68 males and two females. Another Grenfell factory is occupied by the Bramba Engineering Company. This firm went into production on 5th October, 1949. On 1st January, 1950, it employed 61 males, and on 31st March, 1950, it employed 68 males. There is another Grenfell factory at Ferndale. This factory at present, after a year's operation, is employing only 14 males and three females. In this mining constituency there is a fourth Grenfell factory situated at Ferndale which was completed on 4th February, 1949. A period of 14 months has now elapsed since its completion and the factory has still not been let. People living in the mining communities had great expectations that this strong instrument forged by the Government would focus attention particularly upon the solution of the unemployment problem as it affects disabled persons. But it has worked out in a very disappointing manner. What, therefore, is the hard core of the problem which now exists in our valleys? In 1948, the total unemployment figure  in the Rhondda was 3,974. In February, 1950, the figures are 3,502 so that, despite all the efforts made to solve the problem in these communities—where a hard core of unemployment still persists despite the passing of two years—we have a credit of only 472 persons less on the register. But this is the core of the problem. I will take the December figures of 1949 and deal specifically with the total number of male persons registered—2,591. We have 1,441 disabled persons and of that figure 60 per cent. are over 51 years of age. Of the 1,150 able-bodied persons registered, over 34 per cent. are above the age of 51. Furthermore, of the total males registered 1,523, that is, 60 per cent., have been idle for more than 26 weeks. The number of disabled persons idle for 26 weeks is 1,042. That is to say, of the disabled persons in these areas where we have these pockets of unemployment, so stubbornly resisting any approach being made at present to solve them, 68 per cent. are disabled, and have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks. I wish to ask the Minister this question: What contribution will this further Measure make to deal with this specific problem? It may be argued that as a supplementary to the efforts of the Grenfell factories these disabled persons will be automatically and normally absorbed into the ordinary factories when they get into full production. But can we expect a private employer to saddle himself with the responsibility of solving of what is, after all, a social problem? I know that we have in our valleys good types of employers in these new factories; men who set out to build up their manpower with the best of intentions. They are grand humanitarians. But there is still the danger that if they load their factories with too high a percentage of disabled persons it will have the result of pulling out even the able-bodied persons employed in those factories; because they will have to stand up to competition from other parts of the country. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared later to consider whether certain Clauses in the Bill can be so strengthened as to bring some hope to our valleys that this is a substantial contribution. I would warn the Minister against one thing. I have heard pleas this afternoon for the extension and increase of the   number of scheduled areas under the Bill. That is dangerous. I remember when Rhondda was known as a distressed area. Then it became known as a special area, and then as a development area. The effect of that refinement has been that, by bringing Cardiff and Newport within the development areas, the mining communities in the South Wales area were deprived of the benefits of the Act of 1945. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will resist any attempt to rope in more areas and further that possibility. I would plead with my right hon. Friend to realise that we cannot generalise on the question of unemployment. We have to discriminate between area and area and I invite him in the future to discriminate, and to see whether something can be done. Employers will handpick their employees, and the possibility of persons between the ages of 51 and 65, whether disabled or able-bodied, obtaining a job are very remote indeed. If we are to recruit for the mining industry of the future the manpower for the pits, we must dissipate the fears in the minds of the young men in these valleys. If they see a high percentage of disabled men—who are the physical rejects from the pits—without any prospect of a job, what encouragement will that be to those young men in our valleys? Last week we discussed dirty coal. I want the House to consider today that we are discussing the man with dirty lungs, the man whose lungs are punctured with minute particles of silica rock and whose chest is clogged with coal dust. I hope that, if possible, the Minister will strengthen this Bill to give the people of our valleys brighter prospects for the future.
