gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I take this opportunity of making my maiden speech. I have attempted to grasp chances which have offered themselves on previous occasions—spotlight occasions—but up to the present, I have failed. Perhaps it is no loss, either to myself or to the Committee, to take this opportunity of making my maiden speech on the somewhat mundane matter of local affairs, because, on such a subject, we come down to the ""brass tacks"" of the daily lives of the people. In passing, I might confess that, in regard to the wording of this Amendment, I am not seeking either to praise it or condemn it. The Bill, in my opinion, is merely another patch on the patchwork quilt of local government finance. It is inevitable, in discussing provisions of such a temporary Measure, that the whole field of local government finance and administration must come under review, because we cannot discuss a Bill of this kind without raising the whole issue of local government finance, and I challenge the Minister to give us anything in the way of a review, analysis or description of this Bill without involving a review of the whole field of local government finance. I represent part of the county of Shropshire, being the representative of the Wrekin Division of that county. Recently, I have had consultations with local government officers, both in regard to the county council and the local urban district councils, and if there is one thing that stands out in my mind as a result of those conversations, it is that the time has come for the whole field of local government finance to be recast and remoulded. It is hopeless to expect that this Bill is going to be anything more than a temporary further delay, in facing that fundamental problem. I see that, in the county of Shropshire, they are dealing, as in every other county at present, with the question of education. In that county, out of all the educational establishments, 80 per cent. will have to be, not rebuilt or repaired, but totally eliminated and new structures built— practically a new scheme of educational   establishments. Incidentally, in that connection, I might mention this fact, which has a bearing on the Bill. I am informed by the chief education officer of Salop, that the extra grant from the Ministry of Education received under the recent Education Act has been swallowed up in meeting the costs of the new Burnham Scale salaries for teachers. Therefore, it is inevitable that the additional cost involved in the rebuilding or building of a new educational system, will largely fall upon the county rates. I am going to make one positive, practical suggestion arising from the presentation of this Bill at this moment. Unless we are to have more than a mere repetition of such Measures, the Government will have to face the whole question of local government. There is, just starting its labours, a Commission dealing with local government boundaries. In my opinion, the results of that Boundary Commission will prove futile unless the whole field of local government finance and services is also reviewed and dealt with, alongside that Commission of Inquiry, and I suggest that the Government now or very soon, will have to tackle the fundamental problem of local government administration and finance, covering the whole field of social services, which local government has any part in administering. I suggest that the Government should seriously consider the setting up of a Royal Commission to examine the whole functioning of our local government administrative machine, not only from the point of view of boundaries, but from that of responsibility for finance and actual administration of such services as education, water, gas and nearly the whole gamut. I think that, as a result of the contributions made in the Committee this morning, the Government will take their courage in both hands and determine that a new start with a new scheme, shall be made in tackling this urgent question of local government services. I am convinced that, if they are going to be satisfied with this Bill, it merely means another little patch on the big patchwork quilt. It will only increase the area of that big patchwork quilt; it will get no nearer the fundamental problem, but will merely be playing about with it.
