gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to make my first speech in the Chamber in this debate. This Motion reflects an attitude which is at the root of the country's problems today. In deference to custom, however, I must first say that I represent the constituency of Orpington, which gave itself a special place in the political vocabulary by electing my predecessor, Mr. Lubbock, in 1962. An industrious, conscientious Member of the House, he made skilful use of his position as spokesman for a small party on a variety of subjects. My constituency is one of the largest in Greater London, being on its fringe and embracing light industry as well as rural areas, and including a belt of suburban residential property. The population consists to a great extent of comparatively young people who find their living in the City and who are endowed with that desire to get on in life which is the source of the vitality of the British people. Whatever the significance of my predecessor's tenure of this Parliamentary seat, about the meaning of my victory at the recent election there can  be no doubt. The people of Orpington, like most of the people of the country, wanted a Conservative Government. I am proud to have assisted them to obtain one. I am profoundly depressed by the Motion. It was tabled after my right hon. Friend had explicitly assured the House that no major policy differences affected his decision to dismiss Lord Hall. Lord Hall has not denied this, yet it seems that those who support the Motion are not prepared to accept my right hon. Friend's word for it. Why should they thus impugn the Minister's integrity? They have no justification for doing so. Nobody can seriously suggest that a Minister is not entitled to dismiss the head of a statutory corporation if he finds that he is not up to his job. The right hon. Member for Wednesbury (Mr. Stone-house) explicitly agreed with that proposition. But, equally, no one can pretend that there was not a great deal wrong with the Post Office Corporation. To have allowed it to continue with what the Minister considered to be inadequate leadership would have been incompetence on his part. So it seems to me that this Motion is almost completely bogus and that its purpose is only to serve the party game. That is what depresses me, as does the patent insincerity of so many of the words spoken in this Chamber. Last week we had the spectacle of decent and honourable Members being howled down when they were endeavouring to explain their points of view. A right hon. Lady vibrated with passion as she made a speech which the whole country knows to have been the reverse in spirit of that which she expressed when her party was in power. Individual Members bellowed across the Chamber as if they were at a prize fight. Bogus points of order proliferated. This Motion is the continuation of those episodes. If we behave in that way, how can we expect to exert a good influence on the country? Members of this House are not corrupt. Certainly they are not in it for the money. By and large they are motivated by high ideals and the desire to serve their fellow men. Why trade in assertions of mean and base motives? They are quite untrue. The country knows them to be untrue. But they are profoundly damaging because of the place   in which they are uttered. They denigrate this House and the democratic process at a time when our traditional code of moral values is everywhere under attack. We Members of this honourable House can show by our example and the laws that we make that Britain may recover both its spiritual strength and its economic prosperity. But we cannot do that if we use mindless and cheap abuse to each other. I do not believe the sentiment expressed in the lines added by Samuel Johnson to Goldsmith's ""Traveller"": How small, of all that human hearts endure, That part which laws or kings can cause or cure! Those are the words of a cynic. We can do better than that if only we have more respect for each other. Perhaps I ought to apologise for speaking so freely and possibly irreverently in a maiden speech—
