gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with great pleasure that I make my maiden speech today in support of the motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Devon, North (Mr. Speller), which calls attention to the problems of small businesses and voluntary services. First, I should like to say a little about my constituency. Kingswood is situated on Bristol's east fringe, or perhaps I should say that Bristol is on Kingswood's west fringe. It is a hybrid constituency taking in parts of Bristol South-East, Bristol North-East and South Gloucestershire. My first predecessors were the right hon. Members for Bristol, South-East (Mr. Benn), my hon. Friend the Member for Christchurch and Lymington (Mr. Adley) and Sir Frederick Corfield, who represented South Gloucestershire for 19 years and who is now a judge. I am sure that the House will congratulate him on his appointment. My immediate predecessor was Mr. Terry Walker, who worked extremely hard on behalf of his constituents and was a Second Church Estates Commissioner. He has now settled down happily in the realms of small business and I am sure that the House will join me in wishing him every success. A new Member understands the position of his predecessor only when he takes his place in the House, and Terry Walker put a lot of effort into the care of the constituency. I wish him well. As the name implies, Kingswood comes from the Royal Forest of Kingswood, which once covered the whole of South Gloucestershire. It is in the county of Avon. The traditional industry was coal mining and it has not been unknown for mine shafts to appear in inopportune places from time to time, even in this modern day. Today the industrial scene is more diverse and there are many satellite, small engineering and manufacturing units, principally related to the aircraft industry. There are groups engaged in  manufacture in the boot and shoe industry, brushes, clothing, tools, instruments and foodstuffs. We also have strong connections with the printing, packaging and press fibre industries. There are many family-owned small businesses. Down the eastern side of my constituency there is a rural aspect, and farming and market gardening are well established. Kingswood has made substantial contributions to history and it has significant connections with the religious revival of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Even today a symbolic beacon shines forth from Hanham Mount where George Whitfield and John Wesley preached to the mining community. The constituency is now inhabited by many people who work in the commercial and industrial worlds of Bristol and Bath and in the aircraft industry at Patch way and Filton. The outstanding qualities of my constituency are its stable and reliable work force and its outstanding performance in caring. I am unashamed to say that there are more good causes and that more money is raised for caring purposes in my constituency than, proportionately, anywhere else in the United Kingdom. I shall come back to that later. In these days of attacks on the media, I can only quote my experience in my constituency. It is truly well served by the Bristol Evening Post, the Western Daily Press, the New Observer and the Avon Gazette. The New Observer and the Avon Gazette both cover almost the exact boundaries of the constituency. All the papers often run crusading campaigns for the benefit of the people and the editors and staff are to be congratulated on their balanced coverage. Of course we must not forget BBC, HTV and Radio Bristol, which provide excellent television and radio programmes of high standard. I have been in this House since May and I am humble and proud to be here. I have experienced many kindnesses from the Officers and staff of the House at all levels. I take this opportunity as a new Member to thank everyone for all the help, encouragement and understanding that I have received. I am particularly grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Gloucestershire, South (Mr. Cope), whose constituency adjoins mine, for all the help and guidance that he gave me when I first arrived here. I turn now to the voluntary services and call attention to the fact that there is an enormous dynamic resource available throughout the country which is under-utilised and to which many pay lip service. Voluntary organisations have been hit in two ways since the Budget. First, the reduction in the standard rate of tax deprives voluntary organisations of about £3 million a year in recoverable tax, and the increase in VAT has added £4 million to £5 million a year to the cost of running those organisations. Secondly, public expenditure cuts have hit voluntary organisations, albeit unintentionally. Local authorities have passed on, and will continue to pass on, cuts to local voluntary bodies because of the natural instinct to preserve their own services and in some cases because of ""no-redundancy"" agreements with local authority staff. Many voluntary welfare organisations are active in my constituency. They cover a wide age range and cater for the differing needs of varying groups of people. Traditionally, there has always been a large number of clubs for elderly people. These meet regularly, often on a weekly basis, and provide their members with the opportunity for friendship, fellowship and social activity. Often they arrange outings to places of interest or recreation. Examples of this type of organisation are the Old land Good Companions Club, the Young at Heart Club, Kingswood, the Merry Moments Club, Cadbury Heath, and the Evergreen Club, Longwell Green. Basically they all exist to provide social activities for their members and operate on a self-financing basis in that the organisation hires a hall and members' regular subscriptions pay for the use of the hall and its facilities. To that extent, such groups are financially self-contained. Also within the constituency there are various old people's welfare organisations catering for the elderly, the frail and particularly the housebound. These organisations' activities extend beyond work of a purely social nature into the realms of welfare work as such. Perhaps the most established old people's welfare committee in my constituency is the one at Mangotsfield, which runs a day centre, has its own minibus for transport purposes and carries out a visiting and wel-  fare service for the sick, frail and housebound. Generally this committee provides a service which is complementary to that of the social services department. Other old people's welfare committees are just as well organised. For example, the Kingswood and Hanham old people's welfare committee and the Warmley old people's welfare committee have members' subscriptions but also rely on donations from well-wishers and money from other sources. There are various other voluntary organisations within my constituency which exist to meet the needs of certain groups of people. An example of this is the Old land Common mothers' group, which is a support service for young women who need to learn basic mothering, house management, budgeting, food preparation and cleaning skills. Also, there is the Kerb Tappers Club, which meets on a monthly basis and provides social facilities for up to 30 blind and partially sighted persons. Another example of the specific type of voluntary organisation is the Avon North society for the mentally handicapped, which exists to provide help and guidance to parents who have a mentally handicapped child. Among other voluntary organisations in Kingswood are the groups which seek to improve the quality of community life by providing activities across a wide spectrum for all the family—the folk centres and community associations, of which there is a considerable number. Various groups exist to provide care to groups of people to sustain them in their daily lives. Examples of these are the Hanham day centre for the elderly, the Staple Hill day care centre for the elderly and the Clock tower Association at Warmley, which deals with young people. In addition to the voluntary organisations actually in Kingswood, help is also given by voluntary organisations which exert influence and provide services in my constituency. Examples of these groups are Age Concern, Avon community council, Bristol and district retirement council, the Spastics Society, the Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Bristol marriage and family guidance council and the Bristol association for mental health. These voluntary organisations provide community life of high quality. Yet, despite this, it is true to say that although such organisations work with great dedication and enthusiasm, their efforts are fragmented. This is probably the most important point to make about voluntary groups of all descriptions working in my constituency. Each group must have been created originally to meet a defined need, felt by an individual, a small group or a section of the community. The voluntary organisation was created as a direct response to this need. Certainly there is a pattern to the voluntary organisation provision within my constituency but it is very haphazard. Interestingly enough, it is difficult to obtain a comprehensive list of voluntary workers. No such list exists. However, there is an immense amount of public good will, good neighbourliness and community spirit. Many people are prepared to provide help in a variety of different ways to those who are less fortunate than themselves, the disadvantaged, the sick and the elderly or those who are in trouble. Voluntary effort is fragmented. Existing organisations work within their defined terms of reference, usually without reference to any other voluntary group. They do not meet to gain strength from corporate endeavour. When the a question of the reception of Vietnamese refugee families into my constituency arose, the challenge was taken up by the Kingswood Council of Churches and the WRVS. Other organisations might equally have come forward but the Council of Churches took on the main responsibility after the housing units had been provided by the Kingswood district council housing services department. Many voluntary groups in the constituency, as a by-product of their activities, raise money for a worthy cause. The Down End Round Table recently had a surplus of about £2,000. It had great difficulty in finding a project or an organisation to which the money could be given. Many organisations are in much greater need than others of financial assistance. If there were a mechanism by which groups which are prepared to raise money became knowledgeable about particular financial needs within the con-  stituency, it would be a simple matter to channel available moneys to the right quarters. All in all, with regard to the pattern of the operation of voluntary service within my constituency, it is haphazard in the extreme. That pattern could well exist in many parts of the country. One of the most striking factors with regard to the future is that in Kingswood, as in other parts of the county, there will be an increasing number of elderly persons in proportion to the rest of the population. Let me provide the House with some population statistics to give an indication of the projected trends. In the United Kingdom there are 7·8 million people aged 65 years and over. They represent 14 per cent. of the total population. The high rate of increase in that age group is slowing down but the numbers will not reach their peak until 1990, when it is estimated that there will be 8·4 million people aged 65 years and over. They will represent 14·7 per cent of the total population. Within that group, those aged 75 years and over have more need of help and assistance than the others. They are expected to increase in numbers by nearly a quarter, from 2·8 million in 1975 to 3·4 million in 1995. The number of people aged 85 years and over is expected to rise even more rapidly, from about 500,000 to 700,000 by 1995. At that time, they will represent 1·3 per cent. of the total population. In my constituency, the total population in 1971 was 77,810. In 1978, the Registrar General's mid-year estimate was 81,100. That shows an increase, over the seven years, in the number of persons over 65 years of age from 8,111 in 1971 to the estimated 9,340 in 1978. Therefore, the population projections indicate that there will be a sharp increase in the numbers of elderly people over the next decade. The elderly are those who need most help and support from young able-bodied persons in the community. With regard to the question of making voluntary welfare organisation stronger in the future, the Kingswood and North Avon area social service panel is currently considering the feasibility of creating a council for voluntary service. Such a council will work under the overall umbrella of the excellent organisations, the National Council for Social Service and the National Council's standing con-   ference of councils for voluntary service. It is estimated that there are 120 such councils throughout the country. They provide a focal point for voluntary caring and effort. I compare my local community health council, with its paid secretariat in lavishly equipped offices on a prime site, with the enthusiastic band of volunteer helpers who run the Citizens Advice Bureaux and who operate in less salubrious conditions. If they were supported and helped further, they could make a greater contribution to human happiness as well as save the statutory authorities a great deal of money. Only this week in my constituency the manager and staff of a local supermarket—for the third time—organised, cooked and donated a Christmas dinner and provided entertainment for over 200 elderly and disabled persons. There were over 50 volunteer drivers, including a group of young employees from the South-West gas board. Too often, we read about bad episodes concerning the young. If only people could see the care with which a double amputee is lifted into his wheelchair, they would understand the meaning of the words ""volunteer"" and ""caring"". The experiences in the voluntary services in my constituency reflect the position throughout the country. There is a tremendous reserve of resources available to make a substantial shift from the statutory to the voluntary sector in terms of delivery of the welfare services. This would bring about a substantial net gain to society. If the Government adopted a policy of broadening the base of welfare provision, encouragement should be provided by ensuring the maintenance and increase of grant aid to voluntary organisations. Corporate donors from industry and commerce, as well as individuals, should be able to donate to voluntary organisations in a way that ensures maximum fiscal relief. By encouraging, where appropriate, contract work by voluntary organisations on behalf of central and local government, by encouraging matching grants between Government and non-Government sources of money and by weighting the urban aid programme and the rate support grant in favour of the voluntary sector—so that local authorities are encouraged by beneficial financial  arrangements to favour voluntary organisations—great benefit would be reaped. The nation can be proud of its voluntary workers. Their contribution, no matter how small, is appreciated greatly. I hope that my maiden speech goes some way towards expressing the gratitude we all feel so strongly towards them. I sincerely hope that the Government will take note of some of the points that I have raised in support of the voluntary workers and the excellent services that they provide.
