gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is my maiden speech in this House. At first, I was somewhat worried about speaking on a matter of landlord and tenant relationships, which tend to be controversial, but I am relieved to find that save for the matter of agricultural holdings, into which I will not go further, there seems to be a broad measure of agreement on the need for this Bill. Indeed, many hon. Members opposite have expressed the wish that the previous Government had passed this Measure. I have the honour to represent the Nottingham, Central constituency. This is the heart of the City of Nottingham, and, in common with the hearts of many old cities, it has a number of peculiar problems. The worst of all is the lack of adequate housing. In central Nottingham,  there are 15,000 houses which are over 80 years old, which lack inside sanitation, lack a fixed bath, lack a heating system. Of these 15,000 houses, 6,000 not only lack these basic amenities, but are so terrible that they have been condemned. Six thousand houses condemned in one constituency, and not sufficient houses, not sufficient accommodation for the people to be rehoused adequately. On top of this there is a housing list for the city as a whole of 5,000 families. This is a very serious situation and it is made worse by the attitude and conduct of some landlords—not all landlords but some of them. The creeping decontrol provisions of the 1957 Act continually bring on to the market empty houses and there are profound attempts on the part of the owners to sell them. Sometimes they are successful, but many of these houses are so terrible that no one will pay the purchase price for them and so they are rented to families who are on the housing list and cannot live elsewhere. The rents by Nottingham standards—if not by London standards—are exorbitant, when one considers the accommodation offered. I have a whole file of such cases and I expect other hon. Members have in respect of their constituencies. May I give the House three examples? In one street where the standard controlled rent is 17s. 2d., four houses which have been decontrolled have rents of £3. This does not seem much, but in the context of these houses it is enormous. In a terrace not very far from the last street I mentioned there are 12 houses, three of which are decontrolled, with rents of £3. The standard rent of the others is 19s. 2d. In another street on the other side of the constituency there are four houses let for between £3 and £3 5s. a week, and the standard rent for comparable houses is 16s. 11d. I think I should point out that these are not modern houses, nor renovated houses, nor grand houses in any respect. They are houses to which one has access straight off the street, they have two rooms upstairs and two downstairs, they are probably 80 to 100 years old and they have outside toilets. Though £3 may not be much by London standards, in the context of Nottingham it is enormous. What is the significance of the connection between this Bill and these   exorbitant rents? I think that the significance is this: if the tenant protests against the size of his rent—and six of the tenants I have mentioned have protested—the landlord merely has to say, ""If you do not like it, go somewhere else. I can fill this easily."" This is why I welcome the Measure. It will not bring down rents. Indeed, it may permit some rents to go up, but, by and large, it will hold the situation until we have the more comprehensive Measure to which my right hon. Friend referred. To a great extent it will relieve the anxiety of many people in my constituency and throughout the country. It will give them a breathing space until a more elaborate and more comprehensive code of landlord and tenant law comes in to being. I hope that this will be only a first Measure, and I look forward to the time when we do not have to regulate relations between private landlords and tenants—because there must be injustice one way or the other. Either the tenant is handicapped or the landlord, trying to do his best, is handicapped. Let us hasten the time when every tenant can look forward to adequate accommodation at a reasonable rent. I am not very happy about the reference to the county court judges having regard to a tenancy being offered at a ""reasonable"" rent. How is the landlord to know whether he is offering a tenancy at a reasonable rent? How is the tenant to know that he ought to resist such a letting? How are their advisers to know, and how are the learned county court judges to decide? It may be simple in an area in which there is only one authority, but in London there are innumerable courts. Cannot we have a common standard and a definition of what is a reasonable rent? Although he was not a member of my party, I should like to pay tribute to my predecessor, Colonel Cordeaux, who represented Nottingham, Central from 1955 to 1964. I disagreed with most of his policies but I had, and have, considerable respect for him as a man. In particular, he would have delighted in this Measure. His record as a constituency Member is second to  none, and I only hope that I can do as well as he did. I hope that I have not strayed too far into controversial fields, and I am most grateful to the House for its indulgence.
