gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I listened carefully to the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Nuneaton (Mr. Stevens) and agreed with much of what he said. My knowledge of his area is sparse, though somewhat better now, following his remarks. Youth training has concerned me for some time. Until recently I was leader of Northumberland county council and I was chairman of its employment committee until elected to this House. Youth training and unemployment were then, and remain, two of my principal concerns. The opportunity for young people to gain skills has reduced dramatically in recent years. Having myself been a product of the apprenticeship system—an area of youth training on which I shall concentrate—I can claim to be well versed in the problems that the apprenticeship tradition has caused and is still causing. My constituency of Wansbeck includes the major centre for youth training in the county of Northumberland. It is located in the south-east corner and is renowned for producing quality coal and quality soccer players, the best known of the latter being Jack and Bobby Charlton and Jack Milburn. There have been added to those achievements the skills of producing quality aluminium, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and electrical components. The constituency has been altered by boundary changes, and if I remind hon. Members that the major geographical part of my constituency was named Morpeth, they might find it easier to identify. Since I have been in the House many hon. Members have asked from where I come, and when I have replied, ""Wansbeck"", they have clearly looked puzzled, but when I have then said, ""It is Morpeth,"" their immediate response has been, ""Now we know where you come from."" The constituency consists of the four towns of Ashington, Bedlington, Morpeth and Newbiggin. Each has its own unique character and the constituency is now named after the river that flows past those towns and binds them together. To the west is the beautiful, quiet market town of Morpeth, the historic centre for agricultural activity in the area. The waters then flow past the old mining village of Pegswood — its mine now sadly closed — and past Ashington, the centre of mining in Northumberland and reputed to be the biggest mining village in the world. It also boasts more working men's social clubs than any other village in Britain, with 22 of them. The river, flowing through the attractive riverside park, continues past the shire of Bedlington, a town steeped in mining and railway history and the home of the famous Bedlington terrier. Finally it reaches the sea at Newbiggin, a quiet seaside town noted for its hospitality, but also a village which lost its mine in the mid-1960s. The House will remember my predecessor, George Grant, who served the constituency of Morpeth with honour and distinction from 1970 to the Dissolution of the last Parliament. His interests were wide-ranging, but his principal concern was with the mining industry, and he was secretary of the miners' group in the House. He has suffered a long, painful illness, for which he is still receiving treatment. I am sure that the House will wish him a speedy recovery and a long and happy retirement. Like George Grant, I follow a long and illustrious line of miner representatives for the constituency, beginning with Thomas Burt in 1874, who was the first coalminer Member of this House. I hope that I can serve with the same dedication and distinction as my mining predecessors. Although for more than 30 years my experience has been in the electrical engineering side of the industry I can claim to have a wide knowledge of the industry's problems and prospects. The one remaining colliery in my constituency, Ashington, still has a reasonable future, providing that sufficient regard is paid to the planning of the extraction of the remaining coal reserves. As the long-established centre of mining activity in Northumberland, the constituency is the home of many mining employees working in adjacent parts of the Northumberland coalfield. They have proved their ability by breaking productivity records in Britain and Europe. Although there are prospects of further, large, as yet untapped, coal reserves in the county, which could maintain a healthy and viable industry for the future, a dark cloud hangs over the horizon in the shape of a proposal by the CEGB to build a pressurised water reactor nuclear power station on a particularly beautiful part of the coast adjacent to those new coal reserves. That proposal is causing great concern among my constituents for environmental, safety and economic reasons. It is thought that it will mean more pit closures and the possible phasing out of the coal-fired power station at Cambois which is also in my constituency. The logic of building a nuclear power station on that site is being challenged by our district and county councils at the Sizewell inquiry in Suffolk. As a leading challenger of that proposal in my recent role as leader of Northumberland county council, I hope that good sense will prevail and that the CEGB will withdraw its project. With my parliamentary colleagues who feel as strongly as I do, I shall continue to challenge that proposal with, I am sure, the full support of my constituents. I should now like to mention the prospects for youth training and the problems that arise for the younger generation from the lack of opportunity to obtain the skills that are so necessary for the future economic well-being of my constituency and the country. Because of the present economic situation, employers in the private and public sectors are being pressed into reducing their work force dramatically. The first to suffer are young people who would normally expect to enter industry and spend the first four or five years learning skills as trainees or apprentices. Those opportunities have almost entirely disappeared. The mining industry's intake of apprentices in the north-east has fallen from about 500 in the mid-1960s to about 50 today. It is apparent in all sections of industry that such reductions in full training opportunities will leave a huge gap in the country's requirements in the next decade. I recently had the opportunity to learn a little about the attitudes of some of our European Community neighbours. They appear to be well ahead of us in their concept of youth training. The Minister referred to that. It now appears that we shall remain in that organisation, so we must try to keep ourselves competitive in the development of skills among our young work force. I can visualise that, as and when there is once again a demand for old and new skills in British industry, we shall suffer from a dire  shortage of trained personnel. That will create an upsurge in wage levels to attract the better trained and, under EC regulations, encourage young people from other EC countries to come to Britain to work. I do not object to that provided that our young people have the same opportunity. Apparently, that is not the case at the moment. The proposals for the youth training scheme are a very small step in the right direction. They do not go far or fast enough. We require a radical and more realistic examination of our youngsters' development potential and a substantial investment in a properly devised full training system that will produce a work force capable of holding its ground in terms of skills with its contemporaries in the EC and the rest of the world. However, time does not stand still and many young people have already lost the chance of vocational training because no jobs are available. They are therefore left with an utterly inadequate youth training scheme, which is of little or no benefit to them. New attitudes and new ideas are required—not patched-up programmes of unmanageable schemes. If the Government's policies do not allow an improvement in employment prospects, a full and progressive training scheme with reasonable pay is urgently needed.
