gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the Committee on the occasion of my maiden speech. I know that on such occasions it is customary to avoid acute controversy. In an evenly balanced Parliament such as this, it might be assumed that there would be ample opportunities for speaking on non-controversial issues, but I must confess that I have not so far had my interest sufficiently aroused on these non-controversial issues to justify me in rising to my feet. I did not feel that cattle-   grids were sufficient to stir me to make my maiden speech. I find myself, therefore, rising to speak on a matter in regard to which feelings run high and views on both sides differ fundamentally. A maiden speech is an ordeal for anyone, but the ordeal is accentuated when it is made on an acutely controversial subject, in regard to which it is my duty to be as non-controversial as I can. For that reason, I do not propose to delve into the past and try to draw comparisons between what happened during the inter-war years and the immediate post-war years. Nor do I propose to dilate on comparisons between the number of houses produced between 1919 and 1938 and the number of houses produced since the end of the war. I do not propose to say anything about the extent to which private builders were delivering houses in the years before the war, nor do I intend to make any suggestions at all about the relationship between the number of houses that were being produced during these periods and the particular Governments in office. Whenever these matters have been raised they have promptly given rise to controversial questions from hon. Members on either side. Therefore, I am not going to say anything about the errors or achievements of the past, but will confine my observations to the present and the future. The real question we have to ask is whether the Government are building enough houses, but before we consider that, it is necessary to say a word or two about the problem. Housing in Scotland is the most vital of all problems we have to face. Unless decent homes are supplied for the people, everything else is in vain. It is utterly futile to produce model factories, recreational and educational facilities and even model public houses if people, when they come home in the evening, have to spend the night in overcrowded dens. If it is a question of doing without something else, and the right hon. Gentleman is so closely confined in regard to manpower and materials, I have no hesitation in saying that it is his bounden duty to see that some restrictions are put on these other things for what should be priority No. 1. That is the first fact to which I would like to refer. The next is that the problem in Scotland today is infinitely more acute than it is in England. Housing is not keeping abreast of its target, and the achievements of the Government are only touching the fringe of the problem, only nibbling at it. In Edinburgh, part of which I represent, we had an allocation of some 1,600 houses last year. The waiting list for houses is more than 15,000, a clear indication of how utterly inadequate the number of allocated houses is to cope with our problem. The third fact is that costs are rising. That is a factor in the problem of which one has to take account. It means that new houses are being erected in many cases at rents which the people for whom they are being made, cannot afford, and that existing houses are not being adequately or competently repaired. So-long as costs go on rising and no attempt is made to cope or deal with them, our housing facilities will be insufficient. The last item in the general picture as I see it is that building workers in that portion of the industry which deals with dwelling houses are falling off in numbers instead of increasing. That gives a devastating outlook upon this major problem, and it does not seem to be a matter for complacency or for glossing over. It is not a matter about which it would be proper for a Government to say, ""We are doing our best, and we do not think we can do anything more."" If this is priority No. 1, and if facilities are not available to satisfy it, then those facilities will have to be obtained elsewhere. Now let me turn to see what seems to be wrong in the situation. To my mind, the method that is being adopted by the Government to solve the problem is at fault. I have always understood that Socialism was fundamentally opposed to monopoly, which is supposed to lead to high costs and to the discouragement of people working in the monopolised industry. I firmly believe that the Government are adopting a method in housing which is breaking that very principle. It is operating a system of rigid, centralised control which is largely responsible for our troubles. We hear a great deal about democratic planning. I would like to see a great deal more democracy and a great deal less centralised planning in the administra-   tion of our housing affairs. Let me try to amplify that point. In the first place, there is far too much control by the Government over the industry on the practical side. Housing is a closely integrated operation. Unless the industry can move with some idea of what is ahead it cannot possibly organise its task and carry it out efficiently. The very tight grip kept by St. Andrew's House and the Government is preventing the industry looking far enough ahead. It creates the delays and bottlenecks with which we are all familiar in practice. To increase the rhythm of housing it is essential that there should be far more reliance upon the industry and far greater freedom from day-to-day interference from the centre. Far too little responsibility is given to the local authorities—if they are to be the machine chosen for getting housing organised and directed. If we reduce local authorities in Scotland to mere rubber stamps—this may be true elsewhere but it is undoubtedly true in Scotland—and if we insist upon so many consents by St. Andrew's House, the people who are in the local authorities feel that they are not doing a job which is worth while, we shall inevitably destroy incentive and drive. In recent years I know that in Edinburgh, and in several other local authorities, there has been much regret at the increased amount of detailed control that St. Andrew's House has sought to exercise. The inevitable result is to discourage efficient and active people from taking part in local authority work. If they are merely to be reduced to robots to apply rubber stamps periodically, the best type of man and woman in Scotland will not try to serve upon local authorities. The needs of each locality vary. I should like to see each local authority given far more responsibility for deciding the type and location of houses. I should like to see the local authority put into the position of having to determine that matter. If the ratepayers were not satisfied with what the local authority had done they could turn them out in the following May and put in other councillors of a different colour. Lastly, it seems to me that far too little chance is being given to the private builder under the present enormously  centralised control, in Edinburgh he has made a material contribution in the past to housing development and he is ready and anxious to do so now. Many contractors are willing to put up the types of houses which are being built exclusively by local authorities. Why should they not be given a chance to build them? If the resulting competition were to bring down the price of houses that would be to the advantage of everybody. Ratepayers and taxpayers would benefit. If the private builder is not able to compete with the nationalised machine, if he cannot build as cheaply and effectively as the local authority, then the private builder will fail and the loss will fall upon him and not upon the ratepayers. Nothing will be lost by giving the private builder this chance to contribute to the solution of the housing problem. On the other hand, there may be much advantage to everybody concerned. Every house that the private builder puts up is relieving the taxpayer and the ratepayer to that extent, and in Edinburgh is helping to reduce that list of more than 15,000 people who are waiting at present, and will have to wait for years under the present system, possibly a decade, before they can get houses. There is one final point I want to put on the question of private building. Where there is a demand, and I know there is a demand in Edinburgh, an opportunity should be given to people to own their houses. Many people want to do that. I know of people who bought land before the war, little plots on which they wanted to build houses. That land at the present moment is sterilised. The sterilisation may be slightly reduced by recent relaxations, but for all general purposes the land is still sterilised. These people are not millionaires. Usually they have put their life's savings into little plots of land in order to erect their own houses. They believe, as countless thousands believe in this country, that it is good to own your own house and to have the responsibility of looking after it. Why should those people not be given a chance? If they can get their houses built they will be making their contribution towards a solution of the housing problem. They will be taking a few more names on the waning list of over 15,000 people. In England the amber light has been given to the private builder. In Scotland, where our needs are so much greater, why not give the amber light too? Why should we wait until the Secretary of State has tried it on the dog, so to speak. Why must he wait to see what happens in England? Why not try it in Scotland now? The problem of housing in Scotland demands the application of plain common sense, and when that happens we will get more houses and at a lower cost. The alternative is gradually slipping back to slumdom and overcrowding, a state which will sicken and disgust a proud and over-patient people.
