gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I intend to follow the admirable custom that maiden speeches should not be controversial. For an Irishman, that is a restriction which means that my speech will be commendably short. Indeed, perhaps that is the reason why maiden speakers should be brief and heard in perfect silence, because it places a great burden upon the older Members of the House who normally at the slightest provocation interrupt and erupt. First, however I should like to pay a tribute to my predecessor, Mrs. Patricia McLaughlin, who represented Belfast, West for some nine years. She is a person of great charm and great personality who worked strenuously and assiduously for her constituency. She was well liked in the House and at the Council of Europe, to which she was a delegate. It is a tremendous pity in one sense that there is one woman less in this Parliament. The constituency of Belfast, West, which I have the honour of representing is an industrial constituency somewhat similar to the constituencies in the industrial Midlands, but without their full employment. We in Northern Ireland suffer badly from unemployment. However, despite all the unhappiness which they certainly suffer from unemployment, the people in my constituency are, nevertheless, kind and warmhearted, generous and humorous. The speech which we have heard from one hon. Member from Lancashire seems to bear out that we are not unlike each other. The people of Northern Ireland are generous almost to a fault. That is borne out by their relationship with their old people. In Northern Ireland, particularly in Belfast, the old people are looked after with loving care. Despite overcrowding in many homes and despite the need of constant attention for old people who are infirm, a mother or father or a grandparent would not be sent off to the loneliness  of an old people's home or into hospital unless it was no longer humanly possible to look after such a person without the skilled medical attention that is needed. That attitude is a right one, and it is brought about by our own atmosphere in Northern Ireland, where home life is so important. The old people, not only in Northern Ireland but here and everywhere else, deserve all the attention and consideration that they can get. They deserve to enjoy part of the national prosperity and wealth, because they are the mothers and fathers of us all. I said at the beginning that I would not be controversial. I have avoided inflaming hon. Members opposite and, at the same time, I will not be controversial about the amount of the old-age pension that the old people received during the past 12 months under the former Government. It is, however, sufficient to say that the pension that the old people receive has been steadily becoming inadequate for their needs. It is increasingly hard for old people, in many parts of the country, to see young people earning colossal amounts or, on the national level, millions being spent on drink and gambling while they themselves have to make do with very little. Therefore, I, for my part, welcome the proposed increases in these old-age pensions and it is a matter of regret to me personally, as, indeed, it is I know to a great number of hon. Members—I suppose all hon. Members—in the House that the increases cannot take effect immediately. The fault, of course, is not that of the right hon. Lady the Minister. It is, as we understand, the formidable task of trying to put machinery into operation to bring the increases forward sooner. If, however, the old-age pension increase cannot be brought forward sooner, then I sincerely hope that the right hon. Lady will try in some way to make the old people a present of, perhaps, £5 the week before Christmas, so that they would have a Christmas box which they could spend on luxuries. It is said that they will have to wait perhaps till March, but it is these old people who are the least able to wait. For some of them, indeed, it may be the last Christmas. I would like to think that every effort possible   will be made to give them something on account of the increase which they will be getting in March of next year. I feel very strongly about the old people and what should be done for them because when they were younger they looked after their sons and daughters, and by their own labour they helped to create the wealth which we are enjoying in Great Britain and Northern Ireland today. In many cases the old people struggled to give their children opportunities which they themselves did not possess. I think that it is our duty and our first priority to make sure that they are catered for and provided for out of the nation's wealth today. It is no use increasing the old-age pension if it loses its purchasing power through the rising cost of living, and that is the danger which we here face. My fear is that even before the extra 12s. 6d. is paid a little of its value will have been swallowed up by inflation—but, as I am trying to avoid being controversial, I shall leave that and say no more about that at this stage. All I would say, again, is that I welcome in this Bill all the other social benefits—for unemployment, sickness, maternity, and industrial injury, and, of course, the war pensions, and I am especially pleased to see something done for the 10s. widow. This benefit is limited, and there are other widows who should be looked after by the State, deserving widows who are in an anomalous position. I should, perhaps, have told you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, something more about my own constituency, which is a constituency in which the people work in engineering, in the shipyard, in the aircraft factory and in linen as well. They are people who have, as I have already said, suffered severely from unemployment. Indeed, I believe that since the war our percentage of unemployment has been something over 11 per cent. Now through the drive, the energy and the imagination of the Ulster Government that figure has been brought down to 5·4 per cent. this month. That is a considerable reduction, but we are not satisfied with that, and we are hoping that the day will come when it will be completely conquered and that people will not suffer unemployment. We have suffered through unemployment, because when people are unemployed they are unable to save up, and what little they may have saved up they have to spend when they are out of work. Coming back to the old people again, it means that, if they had savings when they were working, many of them spent them when out of work, and so are dependent on the old-age pension. Again their sons and daughters, if they are out of work, are not able to provide for them and look after them as well as they might if they were in work. Leaving that now, I would conclude by thanking the House for its quiet reception of my speech. All I can say is that it has been a very pleasant occasion for me, not only because the House has received me very kindly but because I have been speaking on a subject which is dear to my heart—and also because I know that this is perhaps the last occasion on which I shall find myself in such agreement with hon. Members on the benches opposite.
