gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a mixture of extreme pleasure and deep sadness that I make my maiden speech today. It is a matter of extreme pleasure because almost 23 years ago to this very day I enlisted as a boy seaman in the Royal Navy—and this is another significant day for me because I am now enlisting in a new endeavour which will, I hope, enable me to play a small part in the affairs of the nation. It is also a sad occasion because I come to the House as the successor to a very eminent hon. Member, the late Norman Dodds, whose passing caused great dis-  tress in my constituency as well as in the House. He sat in the House for 20 years, 10 of them as the hon. Member for the Dartford Division and 10 as the hon. Member for Erith and Crayford, after the redistribution in 1955. He was truly loved and revered in his constituency and I can only hope that, as time passes, I may go some way towards being a worthy successor to him. I am told that it is customary when making one's maiden speech to make reference to one's constituency, and I had better be traditional straight away. Compared with some of the constituencies which hon. Members represent, my constituency is very compact. It is comprised of the twin communities of Erith and Crayford, it contains many factories and, of course, a great deal of its rateable value is made up of the rates from industrial premises. The products made in my constituency are household names and I doubt if hon. Members could go to any part of the world where they would not come across a manufacture which originated in my part of the world. I am certain that hon. Members could not visit any industrial area in this country without finding a craftsman who did not learn his skill and craft in an engineering factory somewhere in Erith and Crayford. The whole area is teeming with millwrights, shipwrights, vertical borers, lathe operators and many other skilled men who make up our industrial strength. Although I am proud to represent an engineering constituency, I hope that the House will never have cause to think of me as a vertical borer. It will be appreciated, from what I have said, that the Bill is of vital interest to my constituency. I suppose that I have the distinction of being the newest hon. Member and, therefore, the hon. Member most recently in contact with the electors via the husting. I assure the House that it was on the question of rates that more interest was shown in my constituency, than on any other matter. I am certain that although my ratepayers will be paying 25 per cent. of the increase in respect of the rebate, they will do this willingly because they are no different from the majority of people who are anxious and willing to pay some contribution towards bringing about some form of justice to those poorer members   of the community who are finding the payment of rates an intolerable burden. In my area we have had the advantage, both in the set-up which existed before the reorganisation and since the London Government Act, of having a system for the payment of rates by instalments. In that respect, the Bill will only confirm an advantage which my constituency has enjoyed for a very long time indeed. It was stated in the Press last weekend that, in respect of the payment of rates by instalments, the Bill will result in large increases in expenditure for local authorities. This has not been the experience in my constituency, which has operated such a scheme for a long time. I urge the Minister to give serious consideration to the need to ensure that the details of the provision for payment by instalments are printed on the rate demand itself. While the Bill is before the House, and when it comes into operation at the beginning of the new financial year, the Measure will receive a great deal of interest and publicity. However, things soon leave the front pages of the newspapers and sink out of people's minds, and some local authorities may not be as eager as others to make certain that their ratepayers know about this provision. I hope that the Minister will give consideration to so amending the Bill as to ensure that this provision is printed on the rate demand, so that at all times all ratepayers know that they can exercise this option. The Minister described the rebates as a rough-and-ready tax relief, but it is not a rough-and-ready operation for the rating authority. Subsection (5) of Clause 3 states: It shall be the duty of the rating authority to consider any application made to them under this section and, if satisfied that the application has been duly made by a person qualified to make it, the authority shall grant the rebate … I hope that the House will excuse me if I concentrate primarily on the administrative effects of this provision. I accept without reservation the whole principle of the Bill, and it is only at the local treasurers' administrative level that I have any fears at all. If the rating authorities have laid upon them the duty to satisfy themselves that  a person is qualified to receive a rebate, they should have power to call for necessary documents and, perhaps, to inspect premises. I am not aware that such powers exist for this purpose, but if they should be required they ought to be part of the Bill. The regulations that the Minister will make as to the form of application will be of great interest to treasurers. Rating authorities will be most anxious—I am quite certain that my own rating authority will—to know what is to be considered right and proper for them to inquire into in order to satisfy themselves that those applying for the rebate are qualified to receive it. Clause 4(2,a) deals with the apportionment of rates. The Minister has said that councils will have to apportion rates in houses in multiple occupation. That will be an impossible task unless a rating authority is given power to inspect premises, ascertain numbers and verify the situation. How else can it apportion rates? At present, the rating authority has not even the power to see the workings of the valuation officer in the compilation of the valuation lists. These are all very small points of detail, but I hope that the Minister will consider them. I welcome the Bill. I think that it is a great step forward. It meets a most urgent need that I encountered very much before I entered this House. As I think the Minister recognises quite clearly, it will be on the staff of the rating authority, and particularly on the staff in the treasurer's department, that the duty will fall of getting this thing going. It will depend on the loyalty, the integrity and the enthusiasm of local government staffs, and particularly the staffs in the Greater London Council area who, in the last 18 months, have gone through a most difficult period, consequential on reorganisation. This will mean extra work and strain on them, and we should recognise it. I commend the Bill to the House, and I hope that it will be given the support it so richly deserves.
