gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with more than the usual nervousness of someone making his maiden speech that I make mine as a Member for an English constituency intervening in this debate about Scottish education, but I shall explain presently my special interest in the subject. First, however, I should like to pay tribute to my predecessor, whose seat I took when he retired at the recent General Election—Mr. Charles Mapp, who was well known in the House, a fine constituency Member and a man who built up his majority at each succeeding election on the basis of his friendship with the electorate and his keenness to serve Oldham, East. He was particularly interested in housing and was a well-known and authoritative speaker on that subject in the House. I am glad to be able to report that he is enjoying his retirement, just as is Mr. Manuel. I should like to say something, too, about Oldham. It is not the most romantic of places, particularly when going there from Scotland, but the country surrounding Oldham is beautful. The road from Huddersfield to Oldham enables one to see some magnificent views of the West Riding of Yorkshire and it is surprising, when one dips down from that road into Oldham, to find such an industrialised town. Oldham has, of course, been based upon the cotton industry, which has been severely hit during the last two or three decades, but I am glad to say that it is recovering and that new industry is coming in. I should, however, like to have spoken in earlier debates about the necessity of making an area like Oldham a development area, so that it might have shared in the prosperity which was brought to Scotland by the policies of the former Government, which were very successful in the part of Scotland where I reside. I promised to explain my interest in Scottish education. As you may have guessed from my accent, Mr. Speaker, I am a Scot resident in Aberdeen. I have been very glad to see my Member of Parliament here today taking a keen interest in the debate, although I hope   that he does not intervene to say that there is a great demand in Aberdeen for the return of fee-paying schools, because I could quickly disprove that. I have been a member of the education committee in Aberdeen for some years and I well remember the battles that we had when trying to pursue a progressive, enlightened, forward-looking education policy. It was way back in time that we abolished fee paying in our local authority schools. There was a considerable outcry at the time and an attempt was made—not on our part, but by our opponents—to make this a political issue. As time has passed, however, and we have progressed—I think that our education commitee is one of the most progressive in Scotland—this matter has been completely forgotten. It was not mentioned at all by anyone to whom I spoke during the recent election campaign in Aberdeen, nor has it been referred to for many years, because the people now realise that it is an irrelevancy when one considers the standard of education that one wants for a city. It plays no part in deciding whether a school is a good school or a bad one. I am sorry to see this as the Government's first Bill about Scottish education. There are many problems in Scottish education and we have heard about some of them today, for the debate has widened considerably. They include a lack of modern schools, not sufficiently rapid modernisation of old schools, shortage of teachers, and shortage of money. They all come down to shortage of money. If the Government are trying to justify the Bill on the ground that it will provide money for Scottish education, they do not grasp the magnitude of the problem, for the amount involved will not begin to meet the great need for much more money for Scottish education. I appreciate how much was done by the Labour Government, as much as they were able to do, imprisoned as they were by severe financial difficulties, and I appreciate that the new Government have financial difficulties. But to scrape the bottom of the barrel and to justify a Bill of this kind by saying that it will give financial help to local authorities in difficulty is a nonsense.
