gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the House for the indulgence which is always shown to maiden speakers. If I may say so, this has been a very interesting debate. It has been a real debate on both sides, and not a party political matter at all, with everyone freely saying what he wishes to say. I had a little experience of local government before the war, although not much. Since then there seems to have been a great change in local government. Before the war, there was very little party political action and enmity. I remember that the senior councillor was always made the next alderman on the bench. This was always agreed by the members of the council of whatever party, because such a person was thought to have given service to the city. Since the war, there has been a marked party political change. Quarrels have affected the aldermanic bench and, with a change of party, quite without reason, and having nothing to do with character or service, sometimes these gentlemen have been pushed off the aldermanic bench. With a change of party, the reverse has taken place.   There has been far too much controversy and anger. We have seen recently that in certain cases the Press has been excluded from the meetings of certain bodies. Sometimes one party has done it and sometimes another. These are always very sad occasions. The result is that since the war I think that there has been a diminution of confidence in local authority work, which seems to me deplorable when so many people on both sides of these many local bodies carry out such wonderful work for the public and when officials work so hard. The Town and Country Planning Act and the other intrusive powers of local authorities have also caused great suspicions among the public who never know what will take place with regard to their property, what will happen to values or what is to be bought by compulsion and later sold at a profit by the local authority. I believe that if the Bill becomes an Act and members of the Press are allowed into council meetings to a greater extent, there will be an enormous amount of new confidence in local government throughout the country. I wish in my humble way to support the hon. Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) and, of course, I should like to congratulate her on her wonderful speech. I agree with everything that the hon. Lady the Member for Blackburn (Mrs. Castle) said, but I do not quite agree with her conclusions. If the Bill becomes an Act and if the Press is allowed into meetings to a greater extent, I think public relationships will soften. I believe that when the Press is present at meetings common sense is inclined to prevail and that people are very much less willing to say bitter things. My experience in local affairs has always been that if one says nasty, bitter things one loses support. The hon. Member for Leeds, West (Mr. C. Pannell) drew attention to all sorts of possibilities of racketeering in local authorities. He did not say whether in fact this had happened, but he drew the attention of the House to the possibility that this sort of thing could happen. I believe that if the Press is able to be Present at the meetings of committees which have sovereign delegated powers, a lot of confidence will be restored and  I think that it would be a great safeguard against the remote possibility of things to which the hon. Member referred taking place. I wish to support the Bill and I hope that it will become an Act. My own humble view is that if the Bill becomes an Act it will strengthen confidence in local authorities all over the kingdom. It will make for accord, will remove bitterness and will safeguard the public from the possibility of corruption, to which the hon. Member for Leeds, West referred. I want to thank the House for having allowed me to speak. Naturally, I should like this to be an agreed Measure, for the reasons which I have given. If the Bill becomes an Act, I believe that it will stop party differences, that there will be much less bitterness in local authorities and that we shall return to the times we had before this present bitterness started.
