gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In congratulating the hon. Member for Don Valley (Mr. Kelley), I do so with a proper sense of my own position, rising as I do for the first time to address the House. I believe, in fact, that I am the fifth maiden speaker this afternoon. I listened with great interest to the speech of the hon. Member for Don Valley, particularly his references to opencast coal mining. As a farmer, I can sympathise only too readily with his views on opencast mining. He follows in the footsteps of a great friend to the farming community, Mr. Tom Williams, whom I know every hon. Member wishes well and would wish to thank for his wonderful work. I wish the hon. Member for Don Valley every success in the House and I look forward to hearing him speak on another occasion when, perhaps, I shall be able to listen to him with more concentration than I have been able to do this afternoon. A good many people have said to me over the last few years that they cannot understand why anyone would ever want to go into Parliament. They have also suggested that I must need to have my head examined. The right hon. Member for Llanelly (Mr. J. Griffiths) was worried about the conurbation of Greater London, and I think that some of my farming friends would probably say that I had been driven here by poverty, as a good many other people have. My main reason in rising so early in my Parliamentary career is because my constituency, Lowestoft, has for a good many years suffered from the same sort of problems as have been mentioned already by other hon. Members this afternoon. In the Lowestoft division are a fishing port and an industrial town, a   considerable area of agricultural land and two or three market towns. Agricultural workers there are leaving the land as a result of mechanisation—I shall come back to that point in a minute—and this fact, coupled with the relative failure of the herring industry in the last few years, has created the present serious unemployment position, 9 per cent. or 10 per cent. of the population being unemployed. I am a farmer, and I feel that we have a responsibility towards the agricultural worker and have to try to mechanise our farms more so that we employ fewer people but pay them a lot better than we are doing now. No one deserves a wages increase more than the agricultural worker, but I believe that if only we could develop industries in our market towns, that would provide the incentive for the agricultural worker to feel free to leave the land and to go into industry, which I feel he could well do, and it would force the farmer to mechanise more and pay his workers more. That would provide an impetus for the agricultural worker and for industry generally in my area. I have mentioned that we have in Lowestoft a reasonable amount of industry, but we have, unfortunately, at the moment a very serious, problem in one industry—shipbuilding. I was listening the other day to the debate that we had on the fishing industry. Mention was made of the grants and loans for the building of new trawlers and drifters. I was thinking that in Lowestoft, before long, unless something happens fairly quickly, 700 men will be made redundant as a result of orders not coming to the shipyard. The cost of 700 men at £5 per week on National Assistance or unemployment benefit is £3,500 a week, which the country will have to find, at any rate for a short period. If, with that £3,500 a week, we increased grants for building new fishing ships we could get greater modernisation in our fishing fleet—it was admitted the other day that it was slow to develop in parts of the country—and we could in specific areas, such as Lowestoft, enable men to be kept usefully employed pending an upturn in what we hope will be a short-term period of under-employment. I believe that there is a case there, outside the immediate scope of the  Bill, for immediate and flexible grants to be given to the shipbuilding industry in areas where it has been hit very hard to enable new ships to be built where they are needed; and no one will say that they are not needed in the fishing industry today. That is an example of how we could possibly help. In trying to help new industry I hope that we shall not forget our existing industry. I have had something brought to my notice today which I think is of supreme importance to the country and to my own constituency. Anyone who read the Sunday Express yesterday will have noticed the front page reference to the Japanese incursion into Ireland to assemble transistors. I was glad to see that my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was watching this position carefully. I believe that we have to watch very carefully the interests of our own industry in this matter and to see that the Imperial Preference given to the Republic of Ireland is not—should I say?—misused by the introduction of these Japanese firms into Ireland, because this could be a very serious matter for one of our most progressive industries, the radio and electronics industry. It is an industry which has one of the best records of labour relations, too. That could affect my own constituency very much indeed. I hops that the President of the Board of Trade will watch the position very carefully. I believe that we are negotiating a new trade agreement with Ireland, and I imagine that that will be one of the points which wants watching. As a farmer, I shall never buy any more Irish bullocks if anything goes through on that line. Of course, we all want a lot from the Bill, and we hope that we shall get it. I would make one or two suggestions, as a result of local knowledge, which would not cost much money—that should give them an appeal for a start—but which would help considerably. The first one is this. In some areas, such as my own. in country districts where we have this problem, poor and widely spread districts, it would be a help if we could give a grant towards the cost of advertising our advantages. At present, we have a little piece of paper which is typewritten, and is sent out to   people whom we think may be interested in coming to put up a factory. It really does no good at all. If only we had some of the advantages of the bigger corporations and bigger areas we could show to the rest of the country what we have to offer. I do not think that this would cost much money, but it would be of very great value to us. I am thinking particularly of little towns such as Hales-worth and Bungay, with an 8 per cent. to 10 per cent. unemployed population. I think that we could help them in this way without a lot of expense. We all want better roads and transport. I think that in the communications system East Anglia has always been neglected. One has only to go to Liverpool Street Station, or need have gone there at any time during the last thirty years, to know that East Anglia is the Cinderella of the country's communications system. They are improving very rapidly now. Indeed, we were presented with something on the train this morning which was quite remarkable, a pamphlet showing exactly why our trains are to run ten minutes late during the next six months or so. It is a good deal of improvement, because they have been running half a hour late without any explanation at all. We think that we have a strong case for an improved road between the North Midlands and the whole of East Anglia, which would help our resorts. They keep closing our railway lines, so we do need something better in roads. That would help our coastal resorts and our industry very considerably indeed, and I hope that the Minister of Transport, among the many other considerations which have already been put to him in this debate, and, no doubt, will be put to him by every other speaker yet to take part, will not forget East Anglia, which does produce a fine type of man and one that we cannot possibly do without. Speaking as an East Anglian, I say that, of course, with a good deal of feeling. Finally, I suppose that we all have to try to measure these things in terms of pounds, shillings and pence, but I belong to the younger generation which never saw the mass unemployment which afflicted the country between the wars, and I would say, speaking as one of those people, that I will never work or  stand for any party which would support a policy of unemployment. We have a duty not only in economic terms, but also in social and moral terms, to make certain of giving every man a fair chance of doing a decent day's work. If, as a result of this Bill, we achieve over a fairly long period a prospect of full employment and a chance of giving everyone of good will a chance to work, the Bill will be one which will be well remembered by the people of this country.
