gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I make my maiden speech in the House tonight, I cannot help feeling very humble. I come to help the new constituency of Newry and Armagh. I pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Upper Bann (Mr. McCusker), who represented the greater part of the new constituency. I pay tribute also to my right hon. Friend the Member for Down, South (Mr. Powell), who represented the smaller part of the constituency. Both those hon. Members have an excellent record in the House and in their constituencies. I put on record my and my constituents' appreciation of their very hard work over the past 10 years. If I do half as well I will be successful. The new constituency has the town of Newry at one end, the city of Armagh at the other, and a vast area of rural and mainly agricultural land in between. Both areas  have many problems, but the one that affects both towns dramatically is the amount of unemployment. The recently released figures, which show that Newry has over 31 per cent. unemployment and Armagh has over 21 per cent., are deplorable and cannot be tolerated for one moment longer than is necessary; and even that is too long. Northern Ireland has witnessed the decline of the multinational, especially in the textile industry. We can solve our problems only by local endeavour, enthusiasm and enterprise being encouraged and developed. We will not achieve that if, through taxes and rates, we make it impossible to start even a small business. Tax and rate relief are required. We do not require executives in palatial offices to tell us that they know best how to solve all our problems. We require good, sound common sense and, certainly, no more fiascos like De Lorean. Agriculture is extremely important in Northern Ireland. It is the backbone of our economy. As someone who has depended upon farming for his livelihood, I am only too well aware of all the problems that those involved in agriculture—especially the small farmers—face. Over the past year there have been two major problems—the plight of the potato producer and the intensive sector. The potato producer has certainly had a very difficult period. Farmers have been forced to sell their farms due to the Department's lack of initiative in not introducing a stock feed scheme at an early date. That indecision must be deplored and must not occur again. The intensive sector has been ailing for a considerable period—since the United Kingdom became a member of the European Community and the common agricultural policy took over. We experienced what we have now come to know as the high grain prices. Since then, we have witnessed a halving in the pig and poultry sectors, which have played an important part in the agricultural life of our Province. There has been a loss of jobs within agriculture and all the ancillary industries that depend on a thriving pig, poultry and broiler industry to continue their existence. I hope that there will be an end to the trend of thought that appears to exist in the minds of some departmental officials that future contraction is necessary. Instead, they should turn their minds to planning how this once-great industry can prosper again. The Department should not continue with the defeatist policy that it appears to be following at present. I readily accept that agriculture requires better marketing. More time and thought should be given to that side of agriculture. Marketing, research and development are important for the future of agriculture. Immediate implementation of the proposed extension of the less-favoured area would be of help to farmers in my constituency. I look forward to the implementation of those recommendations. Never have we waited so long for anything in agriculture to be implemented. It has been talked about by high and low in Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom, but talk does not improve the plight of those in less favoured areas. The direct rule system of governing Northern Ireland is, to put it mildly, unsuitable and unsympathetic. The problem is not improved by unrepresentative area boards which are accountable to no one other than the Minister who appoints them. Such a system stands democracy on its head and cannot be tolerated. The system has been thrust on the Northern Ireland people and no matter how often they speak through the ballot box, their wishes are overlooked. Enough is enough. These unresponsive and   undemocratic bodies have disregarded people's views for long enough. They have outlived their welcome and should be disbanded forthwith. As someone who makes his first speech in this hallowed House and mother of Parliaments, I am amazed to see how few hon. Members are present. It does not augur well for the interest to be shown by hon. Members representing this part of the United Kingdom in the affairs of Northern Ireland. I am glad to see those hon. Members who are present. I hope that they will spread the word throughout their parties and that in future more interest will be shown in Northern Ireland debates. We had an education system which was recognised widely as being second to none. The Department of Education and the area boards have drawn up a hit list to try to close our small rural schools to the detriment of everyone. I assure the House that such moves will be opposed vigorously in the communities involved. They will have my utmost support in doing so. Apparently, the Select Committee thinks that there is so much money to spare that we can afford to educate foreigners. We in Northern Ireland can make better use of that money and make suggestions about how that money should be used within the United Kingdom. The people of Northern Ireland are not beggars. They are proud and independent. They have been highly insulted by the Secretary of State's recent remarks. No matter how many retractions he now makes, the stigma will last just as it lasted when the previous man made a similar remark against the Northern Ireland people. We are not looking continuously for more public expenditure, but for a different emphasis. Rather than build a second bridge, which I believe is not required, over the river Foyle in the city of Londonderry, the Government's scarce resources could be better deployed. How many roads in Northern Ireland could have been improved had the Government decided to distribute their road finances more positively? I represent a constituency in which the road system has gradually deterioriated during the past 10 years, since the reorganisation of local authorities. The Department of the Environment took responsibility for that function, which I believe should be returned immediately to local councils. I am glad to see that the Under-Secretary of State is in the Chamber, because I want to question him on one simple subject, which I have fought for during my past eight years of public life. I refer to Tower Hill hospital in Armagh. I should like to extend a hearty invitation to the hon. Gentleman to come to see the hospital. During the six weeks in which I was involved in fighting the election campaign and was unable to attend the local area board, lo and behold it took a decision to build the new hospital on the already over-intensive site at St. Luke's, because it thought that it could save a few thousand pounds. I invite the Minister to come to Armagh, so that I can prove to him that the hospital should be rebuilt on the present site of Tower hill. The Housing Executive is responsible for providing public authority housing in Northern Ireland. Its abject failure to come to terms with the problems that should have been solved years ago and its record on maintenance and rehabilitation are disgraceful. In the 20th century there are cottages and small developments that do not even have the  basic facilities that one would expect. The sums of money that have been spent foolishly over the years would have gone a long way towards solving many tenants' problems. However, success in all the aspects of government covered in the order depends on stability and settled conditions. In referring to the order's impact on my new constituency, I must mention the lawlessness that has existed for 15 years: 15 years of death, destruction and anarchy. That has been the trademark of the evil men. They have murdered and maimed at apparent will, and then sought refuge in the safe haven of the Irish Republic. Is it not time that the law-abiding people of Northern Ireland were given more thought than the murderers, and that one basic right—the right of everyone to live their lives in peace? I look forward to the time when peace will prevail and prosperity will return to the constituency of Newry and Armagh.
