gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. I have waited so long because I wanted to speak on a Scottish subject, and preferably a subject concerning Glasgow. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow, Gorbals (Mr. McElhone) on raising this subject on the Adjournment and so allowing me to do so. It will be recollected that in 1964 Labour made political history by winning Pollok and overturning a Tory majority of nearly 8,000. It was said at that time that the late Alex Garrow was in for life. Unfortunately, we did not know that life for him would be only two and a half years. It is exactly four years today, the Friday before Christmas, that Scottish Members gathered to pay our last respects to Alex Garrow. At the by-election, because of the intervention of the Scottish Nationalist   Party, Esmond Wright, a well-known figure in Glasgow, an academic, television and radio personality, well respected not only in his own party but in other political parties in Scotland, won the seat for the Conservative Party. Had he been returned in this election I am sure that he would have been gracing the Government Front Bench, and on that account at any rate I am sorry that he is not here. Pollok is a constituency in Glasgow which is half residential and half council housing. If anything, the balance is on the council housing side. My hon. Friend the Member for Gorbals spoke about slums and I am acutely concerned about slums ill the housing schemes. We do not have housing problems in Pollok, although we have something of a traffic problem which I have discussed with the Under-Secretary, and about which, even at this late date, I hope to have something done. Pollok is one of the oldest burghs in Scotland, but it has been completely redeveloped by the construction of multi-storey flats. I am sorry to say that after spending nearly £1 million on these multi-storey flats, Glasgow Corporation has walked away leaving large dumps of materials in the vicinity. This is the start of modern slums at House Hill Wood and Priesthill. These flats cannot be adequately described. I have heard them called a jungle. Let me make it crystal clear that I do not blame the present Government or the present corporation. The fault lies with consecutive town councils in Glasgow. Instead of going around the world, councillors in Glasgow would do well to wander around their own city at times to see for themselves exactly what is happening. Priesthill has been described as a place of total despair. Headmasters and their schoolteachers tell me the children suffer if they come from these areas. The scheme was built before the war and no drains were laid. The result is that in 1970 people have to walk to their dustbins through six inches or nine inches of mud. The cleansing department is not very efficient with this scheme and gradually the whole environment is worsened. Above and beyond all others, the great tragedy is that children are being brought up here. I am often conscious of the  fact that this is one of the reasons why Glasgow has become such a violent city. Wives and mothers living in these areas find that for them the cost of living is higher than it is in the rest of the town, for their bus fares are higher and they have to go by bus to do their shopping. Pollok has no amenities of any kind, no place for the children to go, and so they have nothing to do but go in the streets. I hope that this is something which the Minister will consider as soon as possible and that this great estate will be provided with the community services which it needs. As the bulldozers pull down the Gorbals and Bridgeton and Govan, people move into Pollok, and we have a wonderful opportunity to make life for the people moving from the slums much better instead of allowing them simply to move into new modern slums. We already have an acute problem with people who do not want to leave houses which have no toilets and bathrooms to move into houses in Priesthill. This is freely admitted in Glasgow, and it is a shocking reflection on the lack of energy displayed by the corporation. In 1952 the Toothill Report on the Scottish economy criticised the amenities of Scottish council housing and described the new estates as bleak areas of concrete boxes. Discussing schemes without community centres and without anything for children to do, a report published in 1935 said: Neglect of this principle and the prevailing tendency to regard working-class houses as mere units of accommodation unrelated to each other and to their environment we regard as a fundamental defect in the majority of Scottish housing schemes. Thirty-five years later conditions have got worse. One of the peculiarities of Pollok is that five hon. Members live there—I do not mean to suggest that they are peculiar. They are losing constituents into my con-constituency. I am now serving them by doing my best to ensure that life is a little better for the people who move into Pollok.
