gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make my maiden speech I recognise my limitations, and I hope the House will bear with me in my effort. I shall not speak about youth, although I recognise the importance of the subject. I want to speak about something in the Gracious Speech as it affects my constituency. The Gracious Speech indicates that the Government are entering into a trade agreement with the Outer Seven. I regret that the Government have so far paid no heed to the warnings given by the paper industry about what is likely to happen when that agreement is signed. In my constituency there are 2,500 workers who, with their families, depend upon the industry, and for some time this subject has been causing great concern in Midlothian and also throughout Scotland. During the last Parliament the Scottish mill owners approached the then President of the Board of Trade asking that some protection should be given to the industry. I regret to say that those approaches did not get very far. Under the proposed agreement the quota on imported paper will be progressively reduced over the next ten years until it is completely eliminated. The Scottish paper industry has been trying to tell the Board of Trade and the Government that when that happens a flood of cheap Scandinavian paper will come into the country at prices with which our people cannot afford to compete. Because of that, the paper industry and local authorities have been trying to get some concessions from the Board of Trade in order to protect the industry. It seems strange to me—I am prepared to admit that I am not an expert in any way—that while Norway can get some protection for its fishing industry and Denmark some protection for its agricultural and pig industries, we cannot get some protection for our paper industry. In Penicuik, Midlothian, 80 per cent. of the population are wholly dependent upon the paper industry. One can appreciate that if the present policy continues Penicuik, a fairly thriving burgh at the moment, will at the end of ten years become another derelict area. If there were alternative industry to absorb the men and women workers in the paper industry when they became unemployed it would not be so bad, but at the moment we have no alternative industry to absorb the unemployed in Midlothian. The Midlothian County Council has been trying for a considerable time to get the Government to ensure that light industry goes to Midlothian, but so far we have been unsuccessful. I was the convenor of the Midlothian Planning Committee, and I know that in the county's draft development plan many sites have been zoned for industry. We have the sites and the labour but so far we have not got the industry. I beg the new President of the Board of Trade to look at the paper industry again, because it affects Scotland from Aberdeenshire to Berwickshire, and in my constituency what may happen will have a tremendous effect upon the social life of the community. The Government ought again to look at the question of the paper industry and the agreement with the Outer Seven. I regret that the Gracious Speech says nothing about the Government's policy for the coal industry. I notice that it was made public by the National Coal Board yesterday that ten more pits are to be closed next year in Scotland, involving 3,300 miners. The miners in Scotland are gravely concerned about their future. I can speak with authority here, for I have been a miner for forty years. Our men are wondering what will happen and when it will happen. I was present at the meeting in 1940, to which reference has already been made, when we in the mining industry were told how good we were and that if only we pulled our weight the country would never forget us. That does not seem to be working out now. I am told by various people that coal is on the way out and that in future oil will be used to run this country's industries. Surely there is a place for coal in our economy? Surely it is wrong to displace the thousands of miners anticipated by the Coal Board within the next five years without providing alternative industry to absorb them. I do not want anyone to think that I am advocating that our men should spend the rest of their lives down the pits if they can get jobs somewhere else, for I am not. Unlike the hon. Member who has already   mentioned this question, I think that, with a co-ordinated fuel policy, coal can still take its place in the economy of this country. I represent 10,000 miners in my constituency. Some of them within the last few years have been redundant, and now there is every possibility that, on travelling from what was termed a derelict area, a problem which my hon. Friend the Member for Lanarkshire, North (Miss Herbison), who is sitting in front of me, knows, they are going to find themselves again redundant, and possibly may have to take up their roots and transfer somewhere else for work. The miner is asking only for the right to work. In the Gracious Speech there is no indication of what is to happen to the shale oil industry, and on this I should like to take up where my predecessor the hon. Member for Midlothian left off. He advocated in this House on many occasions that the tax on shale oil should be removed. At the moment on home-produced oil there is a tax of 1s. 3d. per gallon, and I understand that all it brings to the Treasury is £650,000 per year. Surely it would be better for the economy of the country to remove that tax, to take the stranglehold off the shale oil industry, which, in Scotland, can supply a large part of the transport. I would, then, beg of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that, when he considers his Budget, if not before, this tax should be removed. The people responsible for shale oil are on record as saying that if this tax were removed they would be prepared to spend money to develop shale oil production more than is being done at the moment, but because that tax is there they are unable to do so. I represent the County of Midlothian, the premier county of Scotland, a county which has great political traditions, the county that returned to this House one of the greatest Premiers Great Britain ever had, Mr. Gladstone. I should like to make a passing reference to my predecessor, the late Mr. David Pryde—[HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear""]—who, I understand, was a very respected Member of this House, respected on both sides—[HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear""]—and I hope that I shall be  worthy to fill his place and carry on the traditions of this county which has sent me to represent it in Parliament. I thank hon. Members for their patience with me.
