gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In his opening remarks my right hon. Friend the Minister of Technology said that the miners had given unstinted service to the nation. They have also given unstinted service to the Labour Party. That is the reason I am here today with the kind of majority that we got at the recent by-election in South Ayrshire. Before addressing myself to the Bill, it is necessary to say a few words about my predecessor and friend, the late Emrys Hughes. Everyone in the House knows that he was a man of very strong character, an individual in his own right, a man of wonderful wit and a great deal of charm, who devoted the whole of his public and political life to the pursuit of pacifism and Socialism. I am sure that the whole House mourned the passing of Emrys Hughes. But the grief was felt most among the people who knew him best in the county of Ayrshire—not only in South Ayrshire, but in the five constituencies. We were very proud of Emrys Hughes. We did not always agree with him. No doubt the Government Whips will be interested in that observation. In many respects Emrys conveyed the political philosophy which pervades and enriches the lives of the communities in Ayrshire, particularly in South Ayrshire. He was endowed with enormous talent which he poured into his belief in Socialism. I am aware that many people might sometimes have thought Emrys's commitment to Socialism and the beliefs that he espoused were somewhat ""pie in the sky"" and Utopian, but it may be little known in the House that, long before Emrys came to it, he was a giant in local government in Ayrshire and had, in fact,   proved that Socialism was a practical belief and could be introduced to the benefit of communities. In South Ayrshire, there is a small burgh called Cumnock. It is perhaps one of the most progressive local authorities anywhere in the United Kingdom, for the quality of representation on the council—while is wholly Labour-controlled—is of the highest. Cumnock is a living monument to the work that Emrys Hughes did for the people of that area many years before he came and graced this House with his presence. I thought it necessary to say those few words about someone for whom the people of Ayrshire had the greatest admiration, respect and love. I should also like to mention the people in my constituency. This is the first opportunity that I have had to contradict the slander of the hon. Lady the Member for Hamilton (Mrs. Ewing), in the television broadcast on the night on which the poll was declared, in which she implied that we obtained our majority because the people of South Ayrshire had been intimidated by the Labour Party. The hon. Member for Hamilton presented two views of the people of South Ayrshire. In the first, before the by-election began—and it was quite accurate—she declared that she had never met people so politically conscious. I think that all the visiting Press and radio and television people found exactly the same. But, after these politically conscious people had rejected separatism for Scotland, the hon. Lady discovered that they were not so politically intelligent at all. The people of South Ayrshire are renowned for their public responsibility and political consciousness. In the mining communities of South Ayrshire on polling day we had percentage polls ranging from 85 to 90 per cent. in torrential rain, and despite a public transport strike. No one, however intimidating, could have produced percentage polls of that nature. Even in local government—I hope that this is reflected in London, though I doubt it—we get about 65 per cent. polls. So it is necessary to write into the records of this House a correction to the misleading statement by the hon. Member for Hamilton. I turn now to the Bill, which is very important to South Ayrshire. Although I am not a miners' M.P., I represent more pits and miners than some of the N.U.M.-sponsored M.P.s. South Ayrshire welcomes the introduction of the Bill, which extends necessary support to the industry to the point in time explained by the Minister. But I would say to him, with all due respect, having just come from a by-election situation where I have been involved in intimate contact with men in the mining industry, that, however welcome the Bill might be, it is not really adequate to the fundamental necessity of raising morale and ensuring for the industry a rôle in the technological future which the miners think the coal industry can, on merit, demand. It should not be necessary in this House, made up entirely of politicians, to emphasise the importance of morale. Hon. Members know how they felt before South Ayrshire and how they felt after it. Morale is extremely important. In the debate in July 1967, my hon. Friend the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Michael Foot) quoted Will Paynter, the then general secretary of the N.U.M., telling the Government that increased productivity depended on the morale of the labour force. My hon. Friend pointed out that, unless we did something fundamental to secure for the industry the targets it thought necessary, there would come a point when we would not have the men to get the production that the supply position demanded. That has happened. In my constituency there is a manpower shortage. So I emphasise the necessity to do something long-term for the industry which does something first for its morale. No one should under-estimate the damage done to miners' morale by the publication of the 1967 White Paper and by the manner in which it has been handled ever since. The miners are rather concerned that the House has never had the opportunity to state an opinion on the 1967 White Paper, although they are firmly of the opinion that it has been implemented and that some of the apparently secret documents which circulated before that, talking about tonnages in the 1980s, are also being implemented. It is essential for the Government, before too long, to produce a fundamental review of their fuel and   power policy, in the form of a new White Paper. It is only fair that people should ask what my attitude is to the matter. I suggest that there are some things that the Government can do to secure for the coal industry the rôle which we think essential. In electricity generation, they must resist the political pressures which are being built up by the electricity generating boards in England and Scotland, and by the oil companies. Perhaps we should advise the electricity boards and the oil companies to slacken their attack on this industry. The domestic market is not so important, by any means, as the electricity generation market, but the Government can do a great deal to support the industry and guarantee it consumption points in this market. We talk about the quality of life. I would advise hon. Members to spend 24 hours in some of the council houses where working-class people live, where only the living room is warm enough to be habitable. There is a market there for coal, provided that the Government are willing to give lower rates of interest to local authorities willing to install coal-fired central heating in local authority houses, or to implement schemes of district central heating for council houses. Next the commercial market, which also involves the hospital authorities. I am a former member of the Western Regional Hospital Board, where we operated the 5 per cent. differential in favour of coal. We have yet to operate it in practice, because that differential is not good enough in present circumstances. The Government should review this Measure upwards. Many of us on this side are well aware of the representations of the N.U.M. for a further financial reconstruction of the industry and the introduction to that industry along with others of the regional employment premium, which I regard as fairly important. I make no apology for making a plea for the mining industry. I was tickled to death to hear the hon. Member for Bournemouth, West (Sir J. Eden) talk about the industrial relations in the industry. He was right to pay tribute to management and to men. I might point out that the harmonious industrial relations in the mining industry have been  achieved without reference to the type of measures which the Conservative Party suggests are necessary on the national industrial relations scene. This is something which hon. Members opposite should mull over and draw lessons from. I believe that, in a maiden speech, one should be brief unless one is never called again. I have made the points that I wanted to make. I hope that the Minister will take to heart the things that I have said about the need for a fundamental review of fuel and power policies and for a fairly early White Paper. I thank the House for its patience in listening to me.
