gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with some trepidation that I rise to speak for the first time here after my election for the Wrexham constituency, but I have been informed, and have seen evidence of it, that the House and this Committee are always prepared to give all encouragement to a new Member. I shall endeavour to be brief, and I shall endeavour to be as non-controversial as possible. The Committee will appreciate that I am succeeding the late Professor Robert Richards, who was a highly revered  Member of the Committee, and who was highly esteemed in the Wrexham division. I consider it to be a great privilege to follow him. As my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell) has so ably shown today, it appears to me quite clear that we are heading for very difficult weather in our economic affairs. We have heard a good deal in the last three or four years about the progress the nation has been making since 1951, and yet the fact remains that now, at the end of the present Parliament, the gold and dollar reserves are lower than they were at the time of the General Election of 1951 and very substantially below the level at which they were in June of that year. That is one reason why I find this Budget a baffling one. Our reserves and resources in October, 1951, were considered by the Conservative Government to be in so very unsatisfactory a state that they slashed our social services, our National Health Service, and the amount spent on education, and yet at the present time, when our reserves are not much better, we find attempts being made to improve the lot of those people who are better off, while relief is not given to the general public. We do not see in the Budget very much hope of any real advance in our social progress. At the same time the trade gap is widening. It was wider last March than it had been for a considerable period. As my right hon. Friend has pointed out, the Chancellor has safely ensured the process of widening it still further. Furthermore, the £ stands at its lowest value in its long and chequered history. These are very serious considerations, and despite them the Government have decided upon the policy contained in this Budget. The Financial Secretary had a good deal to say about the Purchase Tax. Here is a form of indirect taxation which can never be justified in principle, which can be tolerated only in circumstances of grave necessity, and which we are looking forward to abolishing altogether. While there is some relief of the Purchase Tax on textiles, it is very insignificant, and there is no change in the Purchase Tax to lighten the weight of it on the people as a whole. My right hon. Friend mentioned petrol. We know very well that if the tax on petrol were reduced, that would have an influence in reducing the cost of living for the entire community. Nothing, however, has been done in this respect. We are fully aware of the reason offered for that—that we do not want an inflationary pressure at the present juncture. That is the reason offered, and were it justified we, of course, could support it; but let us be perfectly clear on the point. We know prices are rising, but it does not follow, because prices are rising, that we have an inflationary position. Prices rise at the same time as wages. As was stated in this Chamber two months ago, retail prices went up 4 per cent. and wages went up 4 per cent., and the relative position of retail prices and wages seemed to be fairly stable. So it does not appear that there is danger of inflationary pressure from that sector of our economy. When, however, we look at another sector of our economy the situation is rather different. In the same year that retail prices rose 4 per cent. and wages 4 per cent., retaining relative stability between the two, company profits were going up 11 per cent., dividends 18 per cent. and share prices 34 per cent. If the correct definition of inflation is that there is too much money chasing too few goods, then I think that there we have an inflationary situation. There is too much money chasing too few shares, because shares are, in that sector, the goods in question. That explains, of course, the so-called boom and the so-called prosperity. There is an inflationary pressure and that is why, personally, I cannot see that this Budget really makes sense. It increases the inflationary pressure at the very point in our economic structure where we can least afford it. As has been pointed out today already, there is a relief to industry, but it will, of course, find its way into this sector of our economy. At the same time the Bank Rate is up to a higher level than it has been since 1932. This out-of-date monetary procedure is uncertain in its effects in some respects, certain in its effects in other respects. It will certainly add to the cost of living of the community; it will certainly add to the burden of our local government. It is uncertain in other  respects. As someone wrote recently in a periodical, the Chancellor, at the present moment, rather than tugging the horse, is being tugged by the horse, because the increase in the Bank Rate is not achieving the result it was meant to achieve. Thus, I cannot see much really scientific basis for the proposals in this Budget. As the newest Member to enter this Committee, I say in all humility that the Budget is a very baffling one indeed, and to me is explainable only in the light of the impending General Election.
