gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of the House, the more so because Ulstermen are not by nature non-controversial, and, further, because I recall the advice given to new Ulster Members at the beginning of this Parliament by the right hon. Member for Cardiff, South-East (Mr. Callaghan), when he suggested that we have a duty to bring reality into what is sometimes a rather academic debate. The right hon. Gentleman's words on that occasion impressed me greatly. They were typical of his civilised approach to our problems when he was Home Secretary. Even those who viewed the consequences of certain policies with a degree of pessimism and foreboding never doubted his sincerity and his genuine desire to help. For personal reasons also, I have cause to be grateful to the right hon. Gentleman. I understand that he played some part in retaining the constituency boundaries as they were at the time of the General Election, which had the effect of leaving me in South Antrim with an electorate of 144,000, the largest in the United Kingdom. It was probably for that reason, and not for any special merit of mine, that I received almost 60,000 votes, again a United Kingdom record. By contrast, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State proposes now to slash my electorate to a mere 108,000, still the largest, but, after all, a poor reward for my having joined him in our nocturnal exercises in the Division Lobby, which, undoubtedly, are doing a great deal to improve both our figures—though I think that the House will agree that the improvement in my case has been rather more apparent than in his. Grateful as I am for the opportunity to discuss the Home Secretary's responsibilities in regard to Northern Ireland, I recognise that my predecessor, Sir Knox Cunningham, could have opened this debate with far more skill and greater eloquence, and, may I say, with a heavier punch. Nevertheless, I shall do my best, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cardiff, South-East suggested, to deal in realities and try to set the level of this debate above that of charge and countercharge at this critical time in our history. As my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State is at this time mainly concerned with the activities of the illegal I.R.A., I shall, at the risk, perhaps, of appearing to speak in defence of the Irish Republican Army, say that I have noticed that people on this side of the water tend to regard members of that organisation as, so to speak, Irish ""skinheads"" of some sort, tending to heap abuse upon them and their anarchist allies. In fact, in their modem form, they are a powerful force, well organised, well led, financed by brilliantly executed bank raids north and south of the Border and by generous grants from Eire Government funds, with or without the sanction of the Members of that body. They are by no means to be underestimated. The present Irish Republican Army assault on Northern Ireland began in 1956, and this first stage lasted for some six years. It failed because the security front consisting of the Army, the Ulster Special Constabulary and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, backed by resolute government, could not be broken. The attackers therefore were unable to hold any area long enough to impose their will, intimidate the population and force them to co-operate. In 1962, the I.R.A. General Staff called a halt to permit reorganisation. There then followed the greatest rethink in the history of the Republican movement. Its leaders realised that they were working against time, and I can remember, when on a business trip to Dublin in 1965, being told by a senior officer of the Republican movement who, strangely enough, mistook me for a sympathiser: We must strike soon before our people in the North are demoralised by education grants and the Welfare State. They worked hard. They recruited, brilliant leaders of the extreme new left,.   and this time they got it right. I quote their conclusions which are contained in an authentic I.R.A. document issued early in 1968: Our STRATEGY, if it is to succeed must be the perfect blending of Politics and violence … at the most opportune time and under the most favourable circumstances. … We will not succeed in winning support for our policy and ideas by mere propaganda publicity: We must at every possible occasion involve ourselves in any agitation or issue that is part of Republican policy, and it should be made known to the public at large that Republicans are involved and helping in the particular cause at issue. For instance, in one area recently there has been a series of protests and demonstrations regarding poor and inadequate housing conditions, the majority of the members of the committees which were responsible for organising the protests are members of the R.A. By 1968, they were ready to resume the offensive and, with anarchist leaders of brilliant intellect, they enlisted the help of the protest industry and the publicity industry. This time, the security front cracked, not, I would hasten to add, through any fault of the men on the ground. This enabled them to set up their communes and impose their will on those who lived in the so-called ""free"" areas. They established their own courts, executed their own sentences and collected their revenue in the form of protection money. I might say in a lighter vein that there were compensations for the people in those areas because, I am told, they did not have to worry about such matters as motor taxation, television licences and, for all I know, income tax which beset the rest of us lesser mortals. With stage 2 completed and the bases secured, the inevitable third stage has now developed, and we are now seeing for the first time in Western Europe a demonstration of urban guerrilla warfare. Our Army has met this honestly and with great courage, all the greater because they realise that there is no easy way out. Even when the long shooting phase is over, they will have great difficulty in extricating themselves because of the apparent decision of August, 1969, that the Army should replace the civil power instead of merely supporting it. The military were implicated still further by the implementation of the Hunt Committee's Report, which contains some admirable sentiments but which, as everyone now realises, was not realistic in its  conclusions. Had its terms of reference included investigation into the I.R.A. and had it been possible for it to recommend the disbanding of that body, then of course a civilianised Royal Ulster Constabulary would have been acceptable. Consequently, as my predecessor in South Antrim predicted in 1969, … the Army has been given an impossible task and will be engaged in that task for years, not months. One shares the anguish of the relatives, families and friends of those who are killed and injured, and one appreciates the enormous strain on the troops. Like the Royal Ulster Constabulary before them, they have had to endure a deluge of abuse after every incident—exactly the same, word for word and lie for lie. Chapter 1, paragraph 1 of the anarchist textbook apparently decrees that automatic charges of brutality should be made after every incident, with synthetic evidence to follow at early convenience. Their accusers are not naive enough to imagine that the Army, too, will be disarmed, disbanded and phased out, but they believe, with a certain amount of justification, that others will waver if enough manufactured complaints are produced. When theories and policies are upset, it is not unusual for people to indulge in witch hunts. So it is in this case. The latest victim is the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. Hon. Members will have seen the critical article in The Times last Friday, and I believe that Universe has now joined in the chorus. While I concede that the church was probably unwise, even in its own interests, to become involved in the offensives of 1968–69, I am bound to say as a Protestant that it is monstrous to suggest that church men are now shirking their duties. What can they do? How long would a priest or Catholic layman survive in one of those commune areas if he went in and proceeded to exhort people to obey the lawful authorities if that lawful authority was nowhere in sight? As for the general problem, it may possibly save time later in the debate if we discard the solutions which, quite frankly, are non-starters. The first and most popular is the suggestion of getting the three Governments round a table. That is an attractive but futile idea since the I.R.A. and their anarchist friends are utterly opposed to all three Governments.   They are equally hostile to Stormont and to Dublin. What possible good could come of any agreement reached between the three Governments? Another suggestion sometimes put forward is that of direct rule from Westminster. This is what the Ulster Unionists wanted originally in 1921. That again would make not a scrap of difference to the attitude of the gunmen. The reforms which most of us would support are surrounded by an odd superstition that, in some way, they are relevant to the situation in which we are now involved. But in my opinion this is not so, and I want to quote one of the brilliant leaders of the new left who have been actively involved in the troubles and demonstrations. I refer to a certain Michael Farrell. He is on record as saying: We don't want reform in Northern Ireland —we want revolution in Ireland. It appears therefore that they would be equally opposed to everything which could be put forward. I would not associate myself with Michael Farrell and certainly I would not accept anything that he stands for, but I have no reason to believe that he is untruthful or dishonest. When he says that he wants revolution and not reform, I have no choice but to believe him. There is another suggested solution. It was originally mentioned by the Prime Minister of the Irish Republic. It is that all licensed guns should be called in. However, I do not think that there is much evidence that licensed arms have been a factor in any of the disturbances. I doubt very much whether machine guns, nail bombs and booby traps are held on licence, in any case. If we had taken such a course, the same measures would obviously have had to apply to Eire, or the hardware would continue to come across the border in the dead of night. Perhaps we could move from those rather futile suggested solutions to those which might be effective, but some of which might not be acceptable to some people. The first is internment. I have an open mind on this. I think that it could be done successfully in Eire, and probably will be done there, but I doubt whether it can be done by Stormont without another deluge of criticism. The second suggestion is that we might open up the communes and free the  Catholic people inside from intimidation, and therefore deprive the I.R.A. of its bases. But that would provoke protests, and no doubt liberal opinion would demand a retreat. We might try to re-establish the authority of the R.U.C. by restoring its protective equipment, but no doubt Republicans would also regard that as some kind of provocation. The fourth suggestion that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State might like to consider is giving greater help from Scotland Yard. I understand that the Scotland Yard men in Northern Ireland at present appear to act with greater firmness and confidence than their counterparts in the R.U.C. I think that this is simply because they have been consistently supported and defended by successive Home Secretaries. In the longer term we might work towards bringing the security forces under one agency, and that agency must obviously be the Stormont Parliament. Here again we would face a certain amount of vocal opposition. But the power to decide resides here in this House. If we reject all the workable solutions, we burden the Army with this heavy responsibility for many years, with the risk of deeper involvement if the forces of international subversion decide at any time that the British Army must be bogged down and kept off the world scene. I am not entirely without hope. Provided people in the United Kingdom are realistic and recognise the real nature of the problem, and provided too, that future Stormont Governments and Parliaments are assured of automatic support from this Parliament and future Governments here when the next offensive is launched, I think we can look to the future with greater confidence. The vast majority of people in Northern Ireland are keen to make their contribution to the greater unit of the United Kingdom, just as we, their representatives in this House, try to play our part. Collectively, Ulster men and women will do what is asked of them, as they have done in the past, both in peace and in war.
