gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a great privilege to follow the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Don Valley   (Mr. T. Williams), who has done such distinguished work for agriculture. As this is the first time that I have addressed the House, I should like to ask hon. Members for the indulgence and toleration which they always show to those who are speaking here for the first time. For my part, I think that I have chosen a non-controversial subject and that, in that sense, I am conforming to tradition. Although there may be differences of opinion about the best means of achieving the end set out in the Bill, there can be no difference about the desirability of the end itself. I am pleased to be able to speak in the debate, because it concerns agriculture—which is the most important industry in the constituency of Devon, North, which I represent in this House—and, in my view, is the most important industry in the country. This Bill is also related to the effort to improve conditions in rural areas, in that it sets out to raise the living and working conditions of farm workers and others engaged in similar occupations. This is a most important aim, first, from the severely practical point of view that we want to keep people in the countryside. We want to arrest the drift from the land which, in some parts of the country, is very serious and which, if it continues, will have a most detrimental effect upon food production. Both from the economic point of view and as an insurance against a future war we must do all we can to remedy the state of affairs. People leave the land for many reasons, but a large number leave because they think that the conditions are unsatisfactory and do not compare favourably with those in the nearby towns. The remedy is to do what we can to provide better conditions for country people and farm workers. However, we ought not to look at this matter purely as an expedient to ensure an adequate labour force to get the food which we require. We ought to look at it also from the point of view of the countryman himself. He is an essential and important member of the community who deserves every consideration and help that can be given. So far as it is possible he ought to be provided with the services and the advantages which are available to those who live in towns. When people are talking about these services in urban districts I often find that  they refer to them as necessities of life, but when they are talking about the country districts those necessities become something called amenities which are to be enjoyed by the countryman if he is fortunate enough to be provided with them. The amenities of the countryman must become his necessities. That is the attitude which we must adopt. A great deal has been done since the war by all Governments, to improve conditions in rural areas. There has been a great expansion of electricity, sewerage, drainage and water supply services, many houses have been built and there have been improvements in rural transport, and so on. Though a great deal has been done, much remains to be done, and this work must be pressed forward to the utmost. I should like to look at the Bill in that setting—as part of the general improvement; as part of the effort to raise conditons generally. The Bill does that in that it sets out to give the farm worker the safety, health and welfare conditions which are enjoyed by the industrial worker in the towns. These services have been built up over generations, and they are now to be granted to the farm worker. Farm work is becoming more dangerous as time goes on. A generation ago, before mechanisation, accidents with animals were the chief cause of mishaps. Now, added to them, are the risks and hazards arising from the new and powerful machinery which it is the duty of the farm workers to operate. Clause 1 of the Bill makes provision for regulations which may be put into effect as and when necessary. I am glad that plenty of latitude and scope is allowed in their administration. There is no attempt to impose the great structure of the Factories Acts upon the industry. No hard and fast system of rules and regulations is really required. The necessity is for regulations which can be adapted and adjusted to the circumstances of each farm. There is no standardised trouble or danger, and there can be no standardised answer. Much will be left to the discretion of the inspectors who must be highly competent. The success of the scheme will depend very largely upon the way in which they implement these rules and upon their common sense. Their judgment will be necessary in respect of Clause 3,   for instance, regarding extra washing facilities. On a large farm with a big labour force it is necessary and right that such facilities should be provided, but most of our farms are small. An immense number are run by the farmer and his family and, perhaps, one worker. Without saying anything disparaging about the larger units, I would say that if a man is working with his employer all day long he is in a more intimate relationship than is the man on a big farm. Any facilities for washing which the worker may need will be available in the farmer's house. In the small farms, additional washing facilities will not be necessary. The provision for first-aid boxes, mentioned in Clause 5, is a very good one. I wonder whether it would not be a good plan to issue a small pamphlet to indicate how and when the various requisites should be used. I think we all agree that the measures to avoid accidents to children are very helpful, though I quite agree with the Minister when he says that we hope that children will not be deterred from taking a keen interest in the farm and enjoying riding on farm vehicles when it is safe and feasible to do so. I should like to reiterate my welcome to the Bill. It will do a great deal to help the agricultural worker in particular, and, in general, to raise the standard of life in our countryside and make sure that it is healthy, vigorous and contented in the future.
