gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House in this my maiden speech. The reason I wish to speak this afternoon is that during the war I had the privilege of serving for about three years in the Middle East, and so had an opportunity of getting to know the inhabitants there, and seeing some of their problems. I must admit that I was appalled on many occasions to see the abject poverty there. For that reason, I welcome the Bagdad Pact in that it embodies those countries of Turkey. Iran, Iraq and Pakistan. I believe that from this Pact may easily be  evolved a very much better standard of living for those people. I feel that there are three factors which must commend themselves to hon. Members on both sides of the House. First, there is the fact that our good friend America is associated with this plan in the form of an observer—and we should all be extremely delighted that she is there—and recognises at least some of the difficulties which we find in the Middle East. Secondly, it is largely a peaceful Pact, and the only emphasis on the military side is that of security. The main emphasis is on the economic and financial side. Finally, it is a Pact for mutual aid. Day by day it becomes more and more apparent that we in this country need larger quantities of oil, thanks to the ever-increasing expansion of our economy at home. Already, we have seen the results of the great work that has been done by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister in coming to a settlement in Abadan, and the oil is flowing once again to this country. I am certain that much more oil can be brought to this country from these lands where it is so abundant, and I feel that this Pact will greatly speed the flow from the Middle East to this island. Another aspect is the benefit which will accrue to the countries in the Middle East. By virtue of the very large income which will be earned from the royalties on the sale of this oil, they can, if they will, administer that income wisely—and I hope that they will continue to build a much better life for themselves. Through the building of houses and the development of their agriculture by a better irrigation system and many other similar advances they can, in the future, look forward to a standard of living such as they have never known in their whole history. That is why, with all due humility. I urge the Government to persevere with this type of settlement. I very much believe that it is a type of negotiation, on peaceful lines, which will improve the conditions of the people themselves, will convince them that it is better to look to their old friends in Great Britain, the Commonwealth and the Western democracies rather than to flirt with other sinister Powers, who, by their actions, have conclusively proved that their one idea is the domination of the world.
