gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
""Another maiden speech"", I thought I heard my hon. Friend the Member for Keighley (Mr. Cryer) murmur. I understand that it is a custom of the House to mention by name one's predecessor. I follow that hallowed custom and name my predecessor, who was Mr. Tom Boardman, perhaps a name not unknown to the House and throughout the country. He was also well known as one of the leading lights of the Government which fell in February this year. He served the Leicester, South constituency from February to October of this year, and before that he represented the old Leicester, South-West constituency from November 1967. I am assured that my predecessor did much good work on behalf of all his constituents and was held in high regard. I understand, too, that I am allowed to make reference to my constituency, and this I am particularly pleased and proud to do. I represent the southern third of the great Midlands city of Leicester. There is some debate over which is the prettiest of the Midlands cities. We vie with another city not far distance from Leicester, but in my humble opinion Leicester is the great metropolis of the Midlands. Hon. Members are probably aware that Leicester has gained a reputation as a  relatively prosperous city, a prosperity which in no small measure must be attributed to people of the present and of the past. This prosperity has been founded on a diverse number of industries: engineering—from the production of knitting machines to nuclear engineering—footwear, textiles, hosiery, plastics, and so on. Some of these industries are facing difficulties, which I hope will be short term, but I draw the attention of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to these difficulties and hope that he will take them into account when framing his Budget two weeks hence. I agree, too, with the statement made in the Gracious Speech about the need to liberalise international trade. I hope that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry will investigate the effect of low-cost imports on the level of under-employment in some of Leicester's traditional industries. I have already mentioned that Leicester is relatively prosperous, but that must not hide the fact that there is still in the city a great deal of hardship, need and poverty in the midst of relative plenty. It is towards relieving these hardships that I believe the Gracious Speech will do most good, I welcome the housing proposals. Leicester faces a chronic housing situation. There are 12,000 applications on the waiting list—which means 30,000 human beings waiting for a new and decent home. The list grows day by day. As in other cities, many of those putting their names on the waiting list are newly married couples who face the somewhat daunting prospect of having to share accommodation. This arises because there are too few homes to rent, in both the public and the private sectors. In addition, the present high prices of homes effectively rule out the average newly-married couple from the private owner-occupier sector. The lack of accommodation in no small measure gives rise to many of the social problems people face in large cities. Overcrowding and the attendant social problems lead in some cases—and I do not wish to over-estimate my case, as some right hon. Gentlemen have done in recent weeks—to broken homes, and that is intolerable in this day and age. If we are realistic about the situation, we must face the fact that only local authorities and, in the private sector, housing associations can provide the accommodation required. The Government have, over the past six or seven months, done much to help local authorities and housing associations. From what the Gracious Speech says, we can expect that level of help to continue and additional help to be given to places like the fair city of Leicester. I welcome the proposals to reform the law relating to rents in England and Wales. I believe that this means the repeal of the Housing Finance Act 1972. Many local authorities at that time felt ill at ease about the implementation of that legislation; others made their feelings somewhat more obvious and more drastic. There was a feeling among Labour Party members, whether Members of this House or members of local authorities, that the Act was a deliberate attack on the independence of local authorities. I welcome the repeal of this iniquitous and notorious legislation, because it will give back to local authorities the power to fix their own rent levels in the light of their particular local circumstances. To some extent, the housing problems of cities like Leicester—which is a large, self-standing county town surrounded by rural sisters—are to some degree exacerbated by the lack of provision of housing accommodation in the more rural neighbouring areas. I hope that my right hon. Friend will keep this situation under review, so that if evidence does accrue that the district councils surrounding cities such as Leicester are not fulfilling their correct and proper share of the house-building programme, measures will be taken to try to improve their ability to build homes. The Gracious Speech also refers to education, and I welcome the development towards fully comprehensive systems of education throughout the country. I hope that it will be sufficiently flexible to allow for differences in approach within the same local authority area. Here again I speak on behalf of my own constituency and for the city of Leicester as a whole. Prior to the reorganisation of local government, the former county borough of  Leicester submitted to the then Secretary of State for Education and Science, after lengthy consultations with both parents and teachers, a system for the reorganisation of secondary education based upon sixth-form colleges. In my humble opinion that submission was turned down purely on political grounds. Reorganisation of local government has now overtaken us and the new county area is discussing a form of comprehensive reorganisation for within the city which is totally dissimilar to that which the city itself wished to implement only two years ago. Not unreasonably, the parent and teacher associations in Leicester are alarmed at the apparent lack of consultation and have made their feelings well known through the local Press and at meetings which have been hurriedly called to hear their complaints. It appears that the people and teachers of Leicester want a system such as was adequately and fully discussed two years ago, namely, one based on sixth-form colleges. This is not at present compatible with the type of systems operating in other parts of the county, but I hope that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education and Science will admit to some flexibility and accept that the wishes of the parents and teachers in the city of Leicester must be taken fully into account before any final decision is taken. Finally, I refer to that section of the Gracious Speech opposing racial discrimination at home and overseas. Those who know Leicester well probably realise that within our city we probably have one of the highest percentage immigrant populations of anywhere in the country, and I should be foolish to deny that there are real social problems. There undoubtedly are, and in the long term they can be solved only by an ample injection of central Government funds, a point which I hope my right hon. Friends will again bear in mind for future reference. Nevertheless, over the past 18 months or so, there has been a growing basic realisation amongst all the people of Leicester that our future is together within the city. We shall have to work together, not only for the good of the people of the city but as a city as a whole irrespective of our colour. But there are those in the city and in the country as a whole who wish to oppose such working   together. We must oppose these institutions, these pseudo-political parties, and the individuals, whether represented in this Chamber or not, who attempt by their behaviour and public utterances to exacerbate racial tensions rather than to improve race relations.
