gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have the honour to represent Lichfield and Tamworth which, for the past 20 years—until he resigned his seat at the Dissolution—was represented by Mr. Julian Snow. During that period Mr. Snow gained the affection, admiration and respect of his constituents, not only for the interest which he took in them personally but for the interest he showed in their activities, for the sympathy and understanding he felt and for all he did on their behalf. A man of both great integrity and stature, he gave a fine example of service to all people, irrespective of their party allegiance. He was a veritable tower of strength and a magnificent example of service, resulting in a well deserved large  personal following. His place will be hard to fill. Lichfield is a friendly famous cathedral city. It is famous for its thirteenth century three-spired cathedral. It was the birthplace and home of Dr. Johnson and it is now a city of growing population and increased industry. It is also, in up-to-date terms, one of the main shopping centres of the county. Tamworth is growing vastly in population and industrialisation. It, too, is steeped in history. It was the seat of the Kings of Mercia and, in more recent times, was the home of Sir Robert Peel and the scene of the Tamworth Manifesto. Both towns lie adjacent to the A5, the old Watling Street, an area of trouble in that the route which this road takes through the constituency is in many places narrow and overburdened with traffic, resulting in an accident rate which is unacceptably high. These matters are now being discussed with the Minister of Transport. From these local matters I come to the subject I wish to discuss today. An integral part of the implementation of foreign policy is represented by the Armed Forces of the Crown. In the past five years our Armed Forces have been run down to dangerously low levels and this is highlighted at present in Northern Ireland, where we have had to draw on units from the Rhine Army to reinforce the garrison. One might have thought that as the size of the Regular Army decreased, so the size of the Reserves would increase, but just the reverse has occurred. In 1965 the economic axe fell on the Territorial Army, which was reduced from a strength of 110,000 to a possible strength of 50,000, reorganised, and renamed the Territorial and Auxiliary Volunteer Reserve, TAVR for short. When that happened there was an outcry and campaign, because it meant the virtual disappearance from the order of battle of many famous regiments—units of yeomanry, artillery and infantry—regiments with long histories and proud records. Hon. Members will recall that that outcry culminated in the defence debate of 16th December, 1965, when the then Government were reduced to a majority of one. Thereafter the Government of the day had second thoughts and produced   an additional category of TAVR which was known as TAVR III and which had the great merit of restoring to the order of battle those 91 units which had otherwise disappeared. This force was to consist of 23,000 lightly equipped personnel, ready to act in support of the civil authorities and was to cost a total of £3 million a year. The force was launched and by the end of 1967 it had reached about 70 per cent. of its permitted total. Then, as a result of financial crises, which culminated in devaluation, in January, 1968, as a further economy measure, TAVR III was disbanded, along with the civil defence and the Auxiliary Fire Service. Today we have TAVR with a strength of just short of 50,000. It is equipped with modern weapons, but it does more training than the old Territorial Army did. It is efficient and good. It has an operational rôle for reinforcing units of the Rhine Army immediately there is an emergency in Germany. Half of this force consists of what we call logistic or non-fighting units. Only 25 per cent., or one-quarter, of the force represents what one might call the teeth arm or fighting units of the Royal Armoured Corps, Royal Artillery and Infantry. The combination now of extra training time and modern equipment has had its effect, but certain of these logistic units are still well below strength, perhaps due to the extra training or the difficulty of finding technicians. In the Gracious Speech we learn that the Government are to review the rôle and size of TAVR. There are four outstanding reasons why the present policy is shortsighted and, indeed, disastrous. First, should there be an emergency in the Rhine Army, TAVR would leave and this country would be left without any form of organised home defence. Secondly, it has destroyed the skeleton or framework on which one could expand in time of war. Thirdly, it has denied the civil authorities, and in particular the police, the support of disciplined organised bodies for use in time of national emergency or disaster. Fourthly, it has deprived the youth of the nation of the opportunity to give voluntary service and, in so doing, to learn to appreciate the value of discipline, a quality which is sadly lacking in certain quarters today. At a time when violence is on the increase worldwide, there is surely some solid reason why we should have a viable form of insurance against the unforeseen. I firmly believe that as a cheap form of insurance, and as an outlet for the vast number of men and women who would like to give voluntary service for the good of the country, there should be an additional category to the present TAVR. It would be criminal at present to touch TAVR. It has been organised and reorganised time and again. It must now be given time to settle. The requirement today is for an additional force to supplement TAVR, and this could be an occasion to revive those units which went to form TAVR III, many of which remain at cadre strength. It would have three roles; the defence of this country, to provide that skeleton or framework for expansion, and to provide support for the civil authorities in time of emergency or disaster. Its essentials would be mobility, good communications and light weapons. It would not require the sophisticated or expensive weapons of the modern TAVR or Regular Army. For this reason, its training commitment in terms of days could be less than that at present needed in TAVR. The modern young man takes pride in wearing the Queen's uniform. This force must, therefore, be dressed in the same way as the Regular Army and TAVR. Furthermore, this force would keep alive the names and insignia of many famous regiments. I believe that the re-establishment of such a force which initially need not exceed 25,000 will do much to provide stability and will also assist in the recruitment for the Regular Army. I conclude by quoting two sentences which were written by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister in his foreword to the pamphlet, ""Twice a Citizen"". He wrote: … if we have learned anything from history, it is that we live in a dangerous and uncertain world, and that a country which makes no effort to protect its independence deserves to lose it. He then wrote: It will be up to a Conservative Government to revive the voluntary spirit and to provide once again for an adequate level of Reserves and for the proper defence of these islands.
