gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It must be more extraordinary still to have a third Member making his maiden speech and congratulating another Member on the benches opposite on his excellent and interesting maiden speech. I listened with great interest to the problems and difficulties that are being experienced in the North of England, as they are in the part of the West of England from which I come. I am   certain that the hon. Member for Bishop Auckland (Mr. Boyden) will be following in the traditions of his predecessor, Dr. Dalton, who, I believe, was extremely interested in these matters, and I am certain that he will be a worthy successor to him. I would not have had the temerity to speak to the House so soon after my arrival here if it were not for the fact that this is a problem of tremendous urgency and importance in the West Country. Since the turn of the century we in North Cornwall have had a persistent problem of unemployment. The figures of men and women unemployed may not be particularly high, but the high percentage has constituted a very grave social problem. Cornishmen have been forced to go elsewhere to other countries, including England, to find the work to which they are fitted. As I have said, this problem, unfortunately, has persisted since the turn of the century. At the moment we are suffering from a high percentage of unemployment. If I may have the indulgence of the House for a moment, I should like to give the figures in the main centres of my constituency. In New-quay, the percentage is 6·1, in Bude 2·9, in Camelford 6·7. and in Wadebridge 4·6. Hon. Members will notice that these percentages are high when compared with the national average. This is partly due to a seasonal falling off of trade along the coastal belt, but unfortunately the figures are still rising. Unemployment most definitely exists, and, as I have said, although the number of men and women involved is fairly low—about 800 men and 200 women—it constitutes a grave social problem for a sparsely populated rural area such as that which I represent. This is not the entire picture. Like that of my hon. Friend the Member for Torrington (Mr. P. Browne), my constituency is an agricultural area. As my hon. Friend said, the agricultural problem disguises the real unemployment trouble. People are leaving the land and are going to the cities to seek their fortunes, and therefore they are not shown in the unemployment figures for rural areas In addition, there is the fact that we are losing the best of our school-leavers. It is a sad fact that in the part  of the world where I live, near Camel-ford, in the past five years 65·8 per cent. of the school-leavers from the grammar schools have gone out of the county for further education and have not returned. This is a very high figure. The cream of our young people leave to find jobs elsewhere. The reason they leave is not because they want to go but because there are no opportunities suitable for their talents and training within their home area. I cannot believe that this is a good or healthy sign. If we combine this with what is happening in the agricultural areas, the trend of a shrinking labour force owing to the increased prosperity of our farming community because of new methods of farming and price stability, it will be realised that we are facing a very serious problem. People between the ages of 30 and 50 are finding themselves out of work, with no alternative employment to which they can go, and therefore are forced to either stay unemployed or to move outside the county. I welcome the Bill because it will surely bring to us the benefits which the Distribution of Industry (Industrial Finance) Act, 1958, did not bring. The 1958 Act was the first step in bringing help to places outside Development Areas and I welcomed it then for that reason. I am, therefore, doubly glad that through this new Bill there is the possibility that we shall be able to reap added benefit from the powers which my right hon. Friend the Minister intends to take. However, the crux of the matter in the South-West, particularly in Cornwall, is that our communications are bad. I should like to reinforce the plea of my hon. Friend the Member for Torrington that we need more road links with the main arteries of our transport system. I know that it is not possible to ask my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport to give us priority in road development, which is going forward splendidly at the moment, but I would ask him, together with my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, to bear in mind the needs of the South-West, in particular Cornwall. We want a link between north and south of the county east of Bodmin moor. We want better communications over the Tamar, by   Launceston, with England, and it would be of great advantage to us if we could have them in the near future. I hope that Clause 7 of the Bill can be extended to include some provision for a special freight rate on the railways for industrial materials if industrialists come to Cornwall. One of our difficulties in trying to attract industrialists to this part of the country is that in comparison with Scotland or Wales, we are very inaccessible and transport costs by rail are extremely high. If by this Clause some special freight concession could be given to us, I feel that it would be a great advantage to the industrialist who is prepared to come to the West Country. It would give him parity in costs with his competitors in other parts of England. Finally, unemployment is really a social problem. A Cornishman is a man who has his roots firmly in the ground and does not want to leave the county unless he is forced to do so by economic circumstances. This has been happening for very many years now and that is why I ask my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade to give the deepest possible consideration to the extension of his powers to give us in the South-West special consideration. People want to stay where they are and to find jobs near home which are suitable for their skills. As my hon. Friend the Member for Torrington said, they are people with a great deal of skill inherent in their bones. Let us give them the opportunity to use it. The reason I welcome the Bill so much is that I feel certain that we shall see in the years to come a very great improvement in the lot of those of us who live and work in South-West England.
