gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is always bound to be a difficult thing to speak in the Committee for the first time, but to follow so polished a Parliamentarian as the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies) is only to show up the rough edges even more. The right hon. and learned Gentleman began his extremely impressive but a trifle gloomy speech, with a medical metaphor, and if it is not disrespectful to him I should like to suggest another kind of medical metaphor, which seems to me much more appropriate to the situation in which the country finds itself at present. I was reminded of the story in St. John's Gospel of the young man who was cured of his blindness, an incident which at the time was regarded with very considerable  displeasure by conservative and orthodox circles. At the beginning, those gentlemen tried to establish the proposition that the young man had not been cured at all. That is a technique which we have seen applied during this Debate. The statistics on production and other impressive figures which have shown steady improvement over the past five years have been challenged. When these conservative and orthodox circles discovered that the facts spoke for themselves and that their suggestions did not seem to work, they went to the young man and rebuked him. They told him it would have been much better if he had not been cured and that he had no business to be cured at all, because it was extremely unethical and unorthodox and that he had been cured by a sinner. What he said showed very remarkable, proletarian common sense:  Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind. now I see. I think that is the general feeling in the country today at the end of five years of Socialist administration. I do not believe that the people are very much interested in the prophecies of impending disaster. For five years they have listened to the assembled mourners round the bier waiting for the corpse to die, until the candles have burnt out. In general, we have reached a stage when we do not want so much to explain away the fact that we have remarkable prosperity and that we have full employment. but when we should try to look at some of the implications of that policy for the future. I start from the position of warmly welcoming the achievements of the Government in attaining full employment, which opens a new era for the nation. I was brought up in one of the worst depressed areas in the country, and I represent here an area with mining and heavy chemicals, where the worst possible experiences of the past have not been forgotten. Therefore I should be the last person to underrate the importance of what has been achieved. I want to say how grateful I am to my hon. Friend the Member for Kirkdale (Mr. Keenan) for speaking as he did about capital commitments in the social services. He gave me just the text that I wanted to get me over some of the awkward difficulties of knowing how to get on to my subject. It is time that we   recognised much more-1 will not say much more than those responsible for the financial policy of the Government recognise them, but more than the people and many hon. Members recognise—the full implications of the full employment policy. I want to quote what my right hon. Friend the Minister of Health said on this subject in the Debate on the Address. I wish to emphasise that I am quoting. I hope that nobody will think that I am being controversial. My right hon. Friend said:  One of the consequences of full employment is that if we want to have more of a particular thing we can only have it at the expense of some other thing. That is why I describe the proposition of the Opposition as immoral, because they never told anybody who badly needs something that they cannot have more of it unless somebody else is told that they are going to have less of what they want."" —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 13th March, 1950; Vol. 472, c. 865.] A lot of people regard the present pressure on our national resources as a backlog from the war, something which is purely temporary. and is likely to pass away with the passage of the years. I think it is one of the inevitable accompaniments of full employment that there is bound to be tremendous pressure on our resources. We cannot think of developing our social services unless we do so in terms of what the economists call ""opportunity costs."" In other words, we have to think in terms of what we are to give up. I ask the Government to give us a programme of capital development and capital investment in the social services over a period of years, a programme which will balance out the comparative claims of different proposals which we all want to see established and which we all welcome. My hon. Friend the Member for Kirk-dale said he thought housing should, if anything, receive more consideration than it is receiving at the moment. I should be the last to deny the importance or the value of housing. As an investment, housing is tremendously needed and is of tremendous value, but it is worth while remembering the figures which were given by the Financial Secretary last night of the capital expenditure in loans to local authorities. Of those loans, 76 per cent. which is more than three-quarters, are going in housing. I believe that of the loans actually sanctioned over the past three  and a half years the proportion is much nearer 82 per cent., whereas the percentage of capital investment going into schools is less than 10 per cent. Therefore, to think of education and housing as two things we can balance is to get a misleading impression of the situation. It may be that housing is such a basic need of family life that it must receive No. I priority. I am quite prepared to accept that point of view, except that one has to remember that the idea that we can go on building houses and neglecting our other communal institutions, has been tried before and has brought disastrous results. That idea is that we do not need schools or community centres because we need first to build houses for the people. If we are to establish a priority of housing, guaranteeing that it shall have a given proportion of the national savings for the next three years, somebody has to think out what that implies for the other social services. That point of view was put, again by the Minister of Health. I apologise for quoting him so much, but he is rather a safe person to get behind in case I am accused of any Right wing deviation on this subject. My right hon. Friend asked a right hon. Member of the Opposition whether he intended to cut schools, factories, power stations, maternity homes or old peoples' homes. Either we have to accept the assumption that those things cannot be sacrificed for housing, or the principle that housing must come first. We must look at the implications of the latter policy in connection with the general development of the other social services. Let us take the case of the maternity home. Fortunately, my contact with maternity homes has been very restricted but it seems to me that if we are to establish as the first priority of our social programme that we are to have everybody adequately housed, then we must face the implication that domiciliary confinement must be much more common because we cannot afford the capital investment for maternity homes as well as for housing the people. The same thing applies to various measures which now rest on the Statute Book and to which the country is committed, and yet measures in regard to which nobody seems really to have got down to the job of totting up how much they will amount to. We are pledged to   the provision of county colleges and health centres. Taking a smaller matter yet one, I think, of paramount importance, I would remind hon. Members that the whole of the Criminal Justice Act, which may be good or bad—in many respects I think it is bad—depends on the implementation of commitments in regard to attendance centres, detention centres, remand centres and so on. Without those provisions it cannot be made to work yet, so far as I know, the Government have succeeded in making provision for only two attendance centres and have not yet found capital for the other things. Somebody has to tot up what it all amounts to, what we are committed to, over what stage we are going to be able to provide them and what are going to be the implications of not providing them. To go back to my protector, my right hon. Friend spoke on that point also in the Debate on the Address. He was rebuking the Opposition for not being responsible statesmen. He said:  They would not make each separate proposal on its merits alone. They would try to add the sum up and then see whether the adding up of the sum amounted to anything practicable in terms of national resources.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT 13th March, 1950; Vol. 472, c. 864.] That is precisely what I am asking the Government to show us. Have they added up our commitments in these respects, have they worked out what it means in terms of the national resources, which are in full use, and are they prepared to give us a programme of capital investment over a period? If I may come to the obverse side of this picture, going away from the grand financial strategy of it and looking at it from the worm's eye view of the individual local authority, I am inclined to think that a result of this failure to look at our capital commitments in the social services as a whole has been the policy adopted in regard to capital commitments of individual local authorities. Just after the war local authorities were invited to prepare a capital programme for three years. I was concerned in preparing one of those programmes. I know just what happened in my authority and in many other authorities. We had our election address and we looked at all the things to which we were pledged and we pinched a few things from the  addresses of the Opposition boys which seemed attractive, and shoved them all into the programme because we did not want to be accused of having missed anything which there was the remotest chance of doing. The result was that we got a capital programme—precisely the same was true of the global figure—which bore no relation whatever to the national resources. That approach of the problem is bound to be a failure. What is required is this. Having weighed up and balanced the different claims of our capital resources, it is up to the Government to give the local authorities a green light to go ahead over a reasonable period so that they may have some idea of where they are going. I do not apologise for giving a small and very local example of the kind of difficulty that arises. My constituency is a typical area of capitalist exploitation. It is an area in which an enormous amount of money has been made and from which an enormous amount of money has been taken. The result is that we have appalling slums in great quantity and no adequate civic buildings. The local council have produced a proposal for using their powers to provide a civic restaurant and to develop it into what they hope will be a civic centre for the community. They have applied for loan sanction in two different stages. The first stage is merely to provide for the bare necessity of getting food, and the second is concerned with the possibility of developing a community centre. Financially, the two are closely linked together, because the prospects of making the first part pay, depend on the speed with which overheads can be spread over the second. However, they have had sanction for stage one only and they cannot get any undertaking that they will be allowed to proceed with stage two. I am not criticising the Government because I know their difficulties, but the difficulties from the local point of view are equally bad because prudent men cannot possibly decide whether they can go on with stage one, unless they have some certainty that in a reasonable time they can develop stage two. The people of Widnes have shown considerable political maturity and very wise judgment quite recently and there is no doubt that if the choice was put   to them and they were asked, ""Would you rather have the civic building or housing? ""their decision would be that they would rather have housing, and thus they would support a programme of rationing of capital investment. I will give another illustration from my experience in the field of new towns. I am certain that one of the gravest causes of waste of manpower and time in the new towns has been the changes in the capital sanctions which they have received; in other words, instead of being able to plan their proposals over a long period, they have found that they have had to go into reverse and to modify plans in order to meet the demands of the Government for capital reductions. The only way in which local authorities can have any kind of confidence in their judgment, the only way they can be sure of developing their programme and the only way in which they can economise with their manpower is on the basis of having a clear programme put before them. It would be very much better to say to local authorities, ""This is the minimum which you can have; this is the minimum we can provide for schools; this is the minimum for houses, and so on. Within that minimum you have a pretty certain guarantee that you can go ahead. Beyond that minimum it is highly speculative. What you had better do is to put a wet towel round your bead and decide what is the best use to be made of the resources that exist and decide on the comparative claims of the different social amenities which are required with the knowledge that if you accede to one you will probably have to refuse another."" I, therefore, ask that as an accompaniment of the excellent proposals in restoring the housing cuts, which we all welcome, there should be some kind of programme over at least three years and some kind of assessment of our commitments in the way of capital investment in the field of social services, and of how much local authorities will be able to afford. This should be clearly worked out and laid before the local authorities, regional hospital boards and all others whose responsibility it is to develop our social services.
