gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to introduce myself to the House as Member for Liverpool, Kirkdale, and, as usual, to ask for the indulgence of hon. Members for my maiden speech—although I appreciate that any medical diagnosis of my facial appearance would deny the word ""maiden"". I follow in the footsteps of many worthy and illustrious representatives of the constituency. They range from the famous family of Baden-Powell to Elijah Sandham and William Keenan and last, but not least, to the most recent of my   predecessors, Mr. Norman Pannell. Each in his own way made valuable contributions to the debates of this House with independence and authority. I hope, in some small measure, to follow in their footsteps. It would be wrong of me to attempt to deal with subjects that have been introduced by right hon. Gentlemen so far in this debate, because I am the first to appreciate that this could never be accepted as non-controversial, so I shall try to deal with the issues that face the Kirkdale constituency, one in particular. Kirkdale is in the middle belt of the city. Its housing ranges from urban renewal to the ""two up, two down"". Predominantly, however, Liverpool housing, and especially the housing in Kirk-dale, is of the small, terraced type of high density. We have a large population and many large families. A constant problem is that of hospital accommodation and, unfortunately, we suffer from the lost opportunities of yesteryear. At present, we are confronted by the proposed closure of the Stanley Hospital, which has been in existence for over 100 years—even before the famous family came to represent the constituency which I now have the honour to represent. The Stanley Hospital serves a dockland area which also has other industrial and commercial activity in the first belt of the city. It also serves the neighbouring constituences of Scotland and Bootle. The catchment area is very large. It is quite a closed community and the intended closure of the hospital will cause—is causing already—consternation throughout my constituency. For our people it is a catastrophe and it is being said that it will endanger the future well-being and health of the residents of Kirkdale. The hospital itself is a small unit. It has about 110 acute beds, a first-class emergency and casualty department and an out-patients' department that has more than served the needs of the community. Last year, about 21,000 people passed through the out-patients' department and that figures does not reveal the high proportion of the under-14s taken there for emergency treatment. It is very convenient for a mother with a small family, living close to the main arterial road to the North from Liverpool, to be able to take a child, hurt at  home or at school or in a children's game, to the emergency service at the hospital. The emergency service for the dockland workers has always been immediately available. The removal of that service from the geographical centre which Stanley Hospital provides could cause great hardship. It is said—and I agree—that if the planners were looking for an ideal site on which to build a small, compact, modern general hospital they would probably pick the site on which Stanley Hospital now stands. Yet they propose to close the hospital that is already there. I appreciate that the intended closure in the first instance was proposed as the closure of a teaching hospital but, nevertheless, the regional hospital board could have declared its intention to continue with the service as it already existed. I am asked by my constituents to voice their anxiety, and I do so, as well as my own. I live in Kirkdale and although my home is a fair distance from Stanley Hospital it has been a source of security and guarantee to me and my family. To remove the hospital will cause concern to each and every person in Kirkdale as well as to those in the neighbouring constituencies I have mentioned. During the past year, about 2,000 inpatients have been treated at the hospital. This is not a high figure by any standards, but it does not reveal that the occupant of an acute bed very often became a geriatric case. We have not sufficient hospital accommodation for geriatric cases and most of those who found themselves in the Stanley Hospital with an ailment that needed further medical attention for a prolonged period were advised not to return home, for the simple reason that home conditions were very often so bad that they would retard recovery. There would be little opportunity for exercise and fresh air, while the cramped situation would cause nursing difficulties. Many of these homes are sub-standard. Running hot water is often not available at all while cold water is very often drawn from an outside tap. All these factors have made the imminent closure of the Stanley Hospital a serious threat to our community. It is causing a great deal of anxiety   now. It will cause a great deal of inconvenience because the hospital is easy of access in our area. Relatives visiting patients have no difficulty in travelling. I ask my right hon. Friend to reconsider the decision to close the hospital. Kirkdale has many things of which I am proud, not least the Stanley Hospital. The late Cardinal Godfrey was Kirkdale boy, and, on a lighter note, the ground of the Liverpool Football Club is in the heart of my constituency, and some hope that 1965 will be a year of attainment for that club. Still being lighthearted, an old friend of mine used to tell the story of a Liverpool supporter who saved up for many years to see Liverpool win the Cup, but who, unfortunately, died a millionaire. I hope that most people in Kirkdale will not die disappointed with the service offered at the Stanley Hospital under the control of my right hon. Friend.
