gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is, I believe, a tradition of this House that, if any Member of it should be arraigned for any reason, he has the right to stand up here and defend himself before his fellows in this House. I thank you, Sir, for according that right to me this afternoon. I have always heard that the classic definition of democracy is ""government of the people, by the people, for the people."" I have been returned to this House by the will of the people in the biggest working-class constituency in the whole of the United Kingdom, but apparently their will is not to count for anything. It is to be brushed aside because of some archaic legal enactment. [Interruption.] For the benefit of hon. Members opposite, I will say that the date is 1801, and I do not think that any of them were living then. I say the will of the people is to be entirely brushed aside in order that that archaic legal enactment may be given effect. I should like to thank the Lord President of the Council for the way he spoke this afternoon, but I hope that he will forgive me if, as I feel I must, I disagree emphatically with some of the things he said. In the Motion before the House, it is stated that— having been ordained a Priest according to the use of the Church of Ireland, he has received episcopal ordination and is, therefore, disabled from sitting. Any clergyman of the Church of England—and any clergyman of the Church of England must have received episcopal ordination—who resigns his benefice tomorrow and any emoluments accruing can come and sit in this House. The fact that he has been episcopally ordained is not the bar. There is the Welsh Church Act, 1914, and, if I were to join the Welsh Church tomorrow as a curate, nobody could stop me coming to sit in this House, because it is laid down in the Welsh Church Act that its clergymen are entitled to sit in this House. Therefore, it is not true to say that episcopal ordination is the bar. I cannot for the life of me make out what the bar is. It would appear that, in the case of the Church of Ireland, there must be something particularly virulent in our Orders which differentiates us from the Church of England or the Church of Wales, inasmuch as though we are all episcopally ordained, we only are debarred from sitting. I know that, if I may say so, I am really in one sense wasting the time of the House and my own time in speaking now, because apparently the result is a foregone conclusion. but may I say that   a candle has been lighted in Ulster today which will not be extinguished in the life of any hon. Member here. The issue before the Privy Council was an issue of law; we must accept their verdict, whether we like it or not. The issue before the House is not a question of law but a question of fair play and British justice. Are you going to tell the clergymen of the Irish Church that they are penalised when you are not penalising clergymen of the Welsh and English Churches? If that sort of discrimination is to be practised, very well, then, there is nothing that we can do about it. All I can say is that I have had the honour to serve this country and His Majesty in two wars, and, if necessary, I will serve in a third, but we in Ulster do not expect, on a question like this, any party in this House to play party politics. We expect and we hope that the tradition of fair play and justice which is the proud possession of this House will always be shown, and that in a question of this kind party politics will be discarded and that cricket will be played.
