gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a very real sense of humbleness that I rise to speak so soon after my entry into this House, but loyalty to the fellow soldiers with whom I went through three  and a half years in Japanese hands makes me speak on this question. I would ask for the usual indulgence accorded by this House to new Members—perhaps the more confidently because, to the best of my belief, it is nearly 300 years since an ancestor of mine last spoke in this House. It is a matter for congratulation that within six years of the end of hostilities a Treaty such as this has been made—after a war which started with the unprovoked and catastrophic bombing of Pearl Harbour, the over-running of Malaya, the looting of the Dutch East Indies, and the threat to Australia; a war in which brutalities and massacres took place. I think that in a treaty we must look for certain principles. I should like to enumerate only four: first, contrition by the country which has made acts of aggression; second, a sense of guilt amongst all individuals in a country which has broken international conventions and violated the accepted standards of civilised behaviour; third, there must be sufficient punishment by occupation and repatriation to bring the first two principles about; and fourth, the punishment so meted out should act as a deterrent to that country and to others so that aggression does not happen again. I am not quite satisfied that the last two principles are fully carried out in this Treaty. The Foreign Secretary made a very grave statement to the House on 28th January, 1944, pointing out the conditions under which prisoners of war were existing—a statement which horrified the House and the whole country. At that time it was felt that full retribution should be exacted. Years afterwards I was able to read that statement, and as an eye-witness I can tell the House that it was a very accurate statement, but rather an under-statement than an overstatement of the conditions under which we were existing. It was so easy, when they were on top, for 80 years of civilisation—a veneer—to be set aside, and for us to see the barbarian underneath. Are we satisfied that this Asiatic attitude to life has altered—their belief that strength and might are right, and their principles by which the officer hits the sergeant, the sergeant slaps the corporal, the corporal punches the first-class private, the first-class private beats the third-class private, and the third-class private takes it out of a prisoner of war?   We must be certain that the Japanese realise that defenceless people and women and children have rights, and that they should be respected. Those of us who were soldiers there, under the orders of our King, want no pity, but we do feel that justice and reparation should be exacted. We have never expected or wanted anything special from the British taxpayers. I myself, after my return, thought that the worst cases could be adequately dealt with by our Ministry of Pensions, and that those who were fitter, and after recovery, would return to do their jobs as capable citizens of this country. I represent the Eye Division with some 180 parishes, and in scarcely one of them is there not a former prisoner of war, or the relative of one who died out there. I have been very perturbed, in the last two years, to find that men who, I thought, had recovered are now breaking up, and that latent illnesses are displaying themselves. Many of these men are particularly restless in their employment. I have seen many of them, and it is particularly for those men that I would speak, because I am afraid that some indelible mark has been left upon them. I would not weary the House with a recital of the conditions in which we existed then, except to say that I have seen virile, active men in their 20's and 30's reduced by slave labour to being worn out old men who died by starvation or disease due to the callousness of the Japanese towards human life. Money can be little compensation, but at least it does buy some comforts. This matter was debated in the House on 10th May this year in a debate initiated by hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House when they were on that side of the House. In the debate the view was put forward by all parties that a special case had been made out for these ex-Service personnel, and it was hoped that it would be met. I wonder whether the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Lewisham, South (Mr. H. Morrison), who was then the Foreign Secretary, remembered that when he went to sign this Treaty? I know full well that under Article 16 certain sums of money have been put aside, but on working it out, one finds that there is practically no more than £1  million for the ex-Service personnel in this country. There can be no issue per capita of grant. There may have to be a means test in the way this money is administered by the Red Cross, and that really defeats the object that we had in mind. This £1 million barely recompenses the Red Cross for the food parcels stolen from them by the Japanese in the war. I wonder—I do not want to be controversial—whether or not the wool was not drawn across the eyes of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Lewisham, South, who was then the Foreign Secretary; or if that is being controversial, perhaps I should say that I wonder whether his eyes were dimmed by drops of oil. I have heard many speeches in this House about Japanese competition, and I know that there is mention under Article 14 about compensation, and about Japan's economic position not being sound. But I doubt whether that is true. We have the case of the loan and of the bonds lent to Japan before the war, and we have only to look at the rise in value of the £75 million at par that has taken place in the last few years to see what many people in this country think of the ability of the Japanese to pay. There is a further sum of £37,500,000 due in interest which they may well pay, and I feel they might have met the claim of £9 million that we wanted—some quarter of the interest due. I should like to know, if Japan comes to borrow money again from this country, that at least this moral obligation has first been met. It would only mean that she has to work a little longer. The whole amount is little more than 2s. per head of the whole of the Japanese population. Has this Treaty failed as a deterrent? Do other nations now think that the Japanese can now treat the white man with impunity and get away with it? The Korean war started in June, 1950, and it is rather remarkable that it was not until after the terms of this Treaty were known that we got the facts which led to my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary making the statement he did in the House a week ago. It had the same familiar ring. We could get no information of the prisoners. The normal channels through the Red Cross or neutrals were closed. It did not take much imagination on my part to visualise how many of these United   Nations soldiers now in Communist hands may be alive today. Have we made no progress at all? In conclusion, I would say that one of the most emotional moments of my life was in August, 1945, when I, with many others, thin but, I think, undaunted, climbed on to the roof of our gaol at Changi and pulled down the hated Japanese flag, remembering all the brutality that had happened underneath it, and hoisted, in its place, the Union Jack, planting it, as we believed, for freedom, justice, law and order throughout the world. I realise that with all its implications it is necessary to pass this Bill to ratify the Treaty, but I would ask that, in implementing it, we do try to see that in all the Japanese people there is inculcated sanctity for human life, and that they give compensation to those to whom they brought sorrow and hardship.
