gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the customary indulgence of the House for a maiden speech, and I also must declare an interest as part-owner and manager of office property. I find myself in a measure of agreement with the hon. Member for Walthamstow. West (Mr. Redhead) that there is very much of a similarity between this subject and slum clearance. We had to build more houses, 300,000 houses a year, before we could come to our slum clearance plan. With offices, also, I think it would have been wrong to have implemented the principles enunciated in the Gowers Report immediately, when there was an appalling lack of offices. In recent years, there has been a great deal of office building. I was glad to hear hon. Members opposite welcome the building of new offices, because I believe that it has made a tremendous difference. In the City of London now there is a vast amount of new and modern office accommodation and, therefore, at last the Dickensian offices are on the way out. I wish to follow the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Marsh) in one point he made. In my view, the health and happiness of office workers depends very much indeed upon their travelling arrangements. Even if they are working in the most palatial offices in London, if they have, at the same time, an appalling drag to and from those offices they find life rather miserable. I make the plea, therefore, that, when offices are closed down, firms should consider opening fresh offices outside London. In Hemel Hempstead, we have been pioneers in this endeavour. Sir Robert McAlpine & Sons Ltd. was the first large commercial firm to open a headquarters in our new town, and this company has proved that it is perfectly possible for workers to come to places   outside London arid to live outside London. They are able to live near their place of work, and what a joy that is. In my constituency, there are 71,000 very intelligent electors—they sent me here—but many of them commute to London daily. They suffer either the appalling difficulties of travel by British Railways or they go by car and get stuck in traffic jams. In fact, it is quicker now, by courtesy of M.1, to go to Birmingham from my constituency than it is to travel to Londona remarkable comment on the times in which we live. How much better it would be if firms would move out of London and give their office workers the chance of living in beautiful surroundings. We have beautiful surroundings at Hemel Hempstead, wonderful countryside, vast areas of National Trust land just outside our new town, and, in addition, many pretty villages where people love to live in genuinely rural surroundings though not much more than twenty miles from London. The great reluctance of people to leave London is really extraordinary. Government Departments are an example of this. For many years, I have worked in offices and I have experienced the greatest difficulty in persuading people to move away from London. A 'Government Department, perhaps, may wish to send some of its staff out of London, where they are working in unsuitable accommodation and, perhaps, even living in unsatisfactory accommodation, but it is amazing to find how much officials love their Ministers. I do not think that Ministers fully realise how enormous is the number of Government officials who are so fond of them that they simply will not he parted from them. Incidentally, there are other attractions sometimes in London offices. I remember that one office in which I worked was opposite an hotel. The bathrooms in the hotel had been fitted with the sort of glass one can see through one way but not the other. Unfortunately—or fortunately—the glass had been fitted the wrong way round. It was remarkable the inspiration which officials managed to draw from gazing out of their windows. People do not like to leave London, but I hope that, as the old type of miserable office is swept away, people will no longer wish to continue to work all  their lives in London. It is perfectly possible and very pleasant indeed to work outside London. I am not certain that all the recommendations in the Gowers Report should be implemented, although a great many of them should. There is an interesting point made about lighting, to which 1 should like to direct attention. In paragraph 38, the Gowers Committee says: We think that if, in the ordinary course of their duties, the enforcement authority's inspectorate were from time to time to take light-readings of the premises that they visit, and, with the standards required by the Factories Act in mind, were to make friendly recommendations to employers, improvements would soon be apparent. An approach on these lines is preferable to an attempt to impose at once a minimum standard, necessarily couched in language difficult to understand, and capable of enforcement only by employing technical tests which, because of their unfamiliarity, are unlikely to gain the respect of those who might normally be expected to cooperate. I hope that some Measure will he brought forward. I shall listen with keen interest to this debate, but I am not at all certain that this Bill is the best means of bringing about what we want to see. I am, however, quite certain that the time has come when it is possible, reasonable and practical to put the necessary recommendations of the Gowers Report into force. As I say, I am not certain that this is the best means of doing it, but I hope that we shall have from the Government Front Bench today some good news for office workers.
