gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this my maiden speech to the House of Commons, I make the claim that I am not in any sense an old traditionalist, and that while I believe that certain traditions should be upheld and honoured, there are others with which we should dispense. I do not intend in any sense to carry on the tradition that I should be non-controversial. I hope that a small and diminishing number of hon. Members will find my remarks controversial. However, I want to keep two traditions which are valuable. First, while I do not want to take hon. and right hon. Gentlemen on a tour of my constituency, I should like none the less to make a brief reference to it. It is a well known, charming part of inner South London, with two notable public institutions—the Horniman Museum at one end and the Catford Greyhound Racing Stadium at the other. It is, none the less, a place of considerable activity and public interest. It had the distinction of being represented in the last Parliament by my predecessor, Mr. Patrick McNair-Wilson. It would be fitting if I were to make reference to him. In his short period of only 17 months in Parliament he rose from the back benches to become an Opposition Front Bench spokesman on fuel and power. I want to turn to the meat of the subject and to consider some of the proposals in the Budget statement. I take the view that this is a good Budget, a thoughtful Budget and an imaginative Budget. I am very glad that we have at long last set our sights on new economic horizons and that we are no longer, I hope, to trot out the old tired horses of increases in Purchase Tax or Income Tax as the solution to this country's economic difficulties. I take pride in the fact that we on this side of the Committee have introduced a new type of Budget, a Budget which is part of the overall National Plan over  the next five years. I thought that the Budget introduced in April, 1965, was the best that this country had had since the courageous, historic Budget introduced by Mr. Lloyd George in 1909. I am glad that the Budget introduced in 1966 fully emulates that of its predecessor. The distinctive features of the Budget can be summarised as follows. The Selective Employment Tax is just the sort of measure which we so desperately need to get rapid economic expansion and quick industrial growth in manufacturing industry. It may well be that this tax can be subject to review and reconsideration in the years ahead. The important thing is that it is a tax of a type that the country needs. We now have a tax which has a direct bearing on the economic performance of the country. Over the years it will encourage further development of manufacturing industry. Obviously, again in the years ahead, it must be subject to amendment and improvement as we derive experience from its operation. I hope that over the next five years it will not be applied to all manufacturing industry. I hope, too, that it will be found possible to limit its effects on some service industries, such as tourism. I trust that a way can be found to make it more flexible in its application to the regions of this country, notably the West Country, Scotland and the North. The second significant feature of the Budget which I like is its determination to do something to reduce the heavy outflow of capital from this country. I entirely agree with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it is nonsense to argue that we should deliberately create unemployment to enjoy the luxury of allowing private investment overseas in highly developed industrial countries. Over the last financial year we were able to reduce the net outflow of capital from this country from £247 million in 1964 to £137 million. My right hon. Friend's voluntary three point programme for reducing it further is entirely sensible. He will be well advised to consider the operation of this voluntary three point programme over the forthcoming year and to be assured that many of my hon. Friends and myself will support stern action in the years ahead if it should prove necessary. I was encouraged by the determination of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor to seek a new agreement with the Federal Government of Western Germany on support costs for the British Army of the Rhine. We note with considerable apprehension that in the financial year 1966–67 the estimated cost of maintaining the B.A.O.R. is £90 million. I welcome the renewed effort to reach agreement with the Federal Government on the foreign exchange costs of keeping our forces in Germany. Notwithstanding the endeavours of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury in 1965, it is high time that we reinforced our view with a direct indication to the Federal Government that, unless this problem is finally solved in 1966, we shall embark on a phased withdrawal of the B.A.O.R. over the next five years. I suggest that it is in no way intimidating to put forward as a counter-proposal that if the Federal Government cannot see their way clear to meet this enormous burden on British overseas expenditure we shall reduce the B.A.O.R. by a token of 1,000 men per month until satisfaction is achieved. This brings me to the question of defence spending as part of this country's financial policy. I take the view that we in Britain labour under a very considerable economic handicap in supporting our present defence burden. We must bear in mind that today Great Britain spends 6·7 per cent. of her gross national product on defence. The Defence Review of 1966, which is a constructive document—it would be churlish to deny that much hard work went into its preparation and it represents an advance on anything we have had before—still foresees a very heavy burden in 1970—6 per cent. of our gross national product. We must compare this situation coldly and rationally with that of countries in the European Economic Community. We are at present taking steps to open negotiations with our friends in the Common Market. I make it clear that I stand by the Gaitskell conditions laid down in 1962 for this country's entry into the Common Market. But it is worth noting the way in which countries in the Common Market concern themselves with defence spending. Their defence expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product in 1965 was as follows: France  5·1; Germany 5; Holland 4·4; Italy 3·3; and Belgium 3·2. The average percentage of the gross national product spent by the Six on defence is only 4·7. I do not think it Utopian, far-fetched or irresponsible to suggest that we should set ourselves the aim in the immediate future of getting our defence spending down to something like that level. There can be no question but that the continued expenditure of at least an additional £600 million per annum on defence above the average spending of the Common Market countries is a major handicap to economic growth and social advance in Britain. The time has come to review not only our defence spending but the basis of it for our policies abroad. Unfortunately, we still hear from senior Ministers references to the need for a British presence in South-East Asia and east of Suez generally. It is worth noting that all the Common Market countries, with one exception—Luxemburg—are former imperial powers. No one talks of the need for a Dutch presence in South-East Asia or for a Belgian or German presence in Africa. The Common Market countries have taken a much more sensible attitude. Their defence effort is concentrated in Europe. Internationally they are getting collective security on the cheap, as is America. The people who are paying the cost are the British tax-payers, through the British economy. It is worth noting in passing that one of the repercussions this very high level of defence spending has been the fact that whereas Britain, with 450,000 men under arms, has some 103,000 stationed in the Near, Middle and Far East—representing 23 per cent of that total—the Common Market countries, with an aggregate of 1,650,000 men under arms, have only 11,000 stations outside Europe. There is a real moral in that for Britain. In welcoming this Budget and congratulating the Chancellor and the Treasury team upon turning out what I think is a first-class job of work, I would draw their attention to the fact that all their endeavours will continue to be handicapped by this heavy and needless additional burden, of what I would term excess defence expenditure overseas. Over the next five years, if we go on as we have been going on in overseas defence commitments, we shall be spending an excess   amount of something like £3,000 million or roughly 10 per cent. of our current Gross National Product. In my view that is too high. I have been incautious enough to put my name to a Motion on the Order Paper calling for a limit on the duration of speeches. It is appropriate that at this juncture I should adhere to the inspiration of this Motion. I conclude by saying that I think that the Chancellor, in putting forward this Budget at the start of this new Session, has set his sights correctly. I am quite confident that the people will respect new endeavours, new ideas and a new approach to the problem of carrying forward the more equitable and more sensible distribution of the country's gross national wealth in the years ahead.
