gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am conscious of the opportunity which you have given me, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and conscious of a lack of polish and experience in these affairs. I beg your indulgence and the indulgence of hon. Members if I transgress from the customs and practices of the House. I immediately pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Jack Maginnis, who had  represented Armagh for 15 years. He was an honest and honourable man. Those are attributes which are unfortunately sadly lacking in public affairs today, and I am sure that they will be missed in this House. Mr. Maginnis represented Armagh to the best of his ability, and the thanks of everyone in the county are due to him. My constituency is the smallest county in Northern Ireland. It is frequently referred to as the orchard county. It is justly famous for the excellence of its Bramley apples. Today I saw some of them for sale in a local street market adjacent to the House. As some Members may know, Bramley apples are slightly bitter, and when exposed to heat they quickly reduce to a jelly-like consistency. The first such attribute, unfortunately, I now possess, because I am slightly bitter. Whether or not I possess the second attribute can be confirmed only by those Members present in the days and weeks that lie ahead. My county is also referred to—and it is proud of the title—as the County of the Diamond. Perhaps some Members will know that it is so called because it was within the county that the famous Battle of the Diamond was fought, which led to the formation of the Orange Order. It is unfortunate that the battle still rages in the streets, townlands and border areas in the county. Although County Armagh has had its fair share of the industrial development there has been in Northern Ireland since the war, the principal industry is still agriculture. The full range of farming activities is practised diligently and efficiently. The Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries referred to the necessity for improving morale and effectiveness within the agriculture community. On the question of morale, I could not agree more, but he holds the key to this, and I hope he will soon tell us how he intends to use it. In Armagh are some of the most efficient farm units in the United Kingdom. If the Minister does not take immediate action to alleviate the plight of the pig, beef and egg producers—the people whom I represent—these assets will be lost to the nation and the skill of the farmers will be lost to factory-based industries. The units are too small to be converted   to other uses and many farmers are already leaving them. It is all very well for the Minister to exhort better use of our grassland—we have some of the best—but he must do something about the cost of feeding stuffs, if only to put Northern Ireland on a par with the rest of the United Kingdom. I could add £2 or £3 to figures mentioned by previous speakers. The Minister must realise the fix that some of our people are in. I welcome the assurance in the Gracious Speech that the Government intend to encourage maximum economic production in the interests of the national economy. There are many other aspects of the Gracious Speech with which I concur, such as action on pensions, prices, a voluntary incomes policy, renegotiation of the entry terms to the EEC and repeal of the Industrial Relations Act. It appears that I would perhaps be better sitting on the Government benches rather than with the Opposition. The part of the Gracious Speech which I cannot accept is that which refers to Northern Ireland. At a time when murder and violence are rampant, it is a disgrace that the defeat of terrorism is mentioned almost as an afterthought. The last thing my constituents said to me before I came here was, ""Make sure you tell them what it is all about and what it is like."" Belfast is only 55 minutes' travel time from London. The television, radio and newspapers have already told the people here what the trouble is all about, and I do not need to tell them. What an indictment it is of the House that the people whom I represent see policies being practised all around them which lead them to think that the people over here cannot know what it is all about. That is the tragedy of our situation. Governments here are prepared to continue with policies that have resulted in one soldier being killed yesterday and one of my constituents having two legs blown off today. The blood and guts spilt on the streets of Belfast represent a tragedy which lies heavily on the heads of some gentlemen who are not too far away from me tonight. The implication in the Gracious Speech is that peace can still be bought by further political concessions. Surely that idea has  been exposed over the last few years as a myth. The only encouraging aspect is that from speaking to various hon. Members I have gained the impression that there is a realisation in the House that this battle must be won. I hope that that realisation will be followed by a growing realisation of a will to win. My only hope is that the will to win will quickly permeate through to Government thinking and will lead to a change in what they are now advocating.
