gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for providing me with the opportunity to combine my first speech in the House with this Adjournment debate. As it is my first opportunity, may I add to those of my hon. Friends my congratulations to you on the achievement of your current position. If the Minister will allow, I shall attend briefly to the conventions of a maiden speech before moving on to raise the concerns expressed by many of my constituents during the election campaign, both by members of staff who work at what is now Broadgreen NHS hospital trust and by residents who are worried about the future of what they describe as their local hospital. The constituency of Broadgreen, on the eastern approaches to the city of Liverpool, encompasses the communities of Childwall and Wavertree to the south and Broadgreen, Knotty Ash, Old Swan, and Kensington to the north and west, at the end of the M62 motorway. For too many years, as a result of the application of unrestrained market forces, the M62 has been the only avenue for advancement open to many young people in Liverpool: southwards to London and to Europe. People have wondered about the robust nature of Liverpool politics, but I would respectfully suggest that a local journalist and friend of mine, Ian Williams, got it right when he said, ""If you give a city third world economics, why should you be surprised if you get third world politics?"" Faced with dramatic demographic change, the people of Liverpool have struggled to find a way forward. The political divisions thrown up there should provide no comfort to the Conservative party. They are a symptom of the continuing decline of the local economy and the hardship that that has created for the people. Liverpool people have shown great courage and dignity in the teeth of their troubles, turning aside attacks upon them with wit and gritty determination. My predecessor, Mr. Terry Fields, was an example of that determination when he demonstrated that he had the courage of his convictions. An unholy alliance of Conservative stubbornness over the poll tax and the Trotskyist need for a martyr meant that he was indeed convicted for his convictions. A sincere man, he took the rap for the real villains on both sides of that unhappy affair. I wish Mr. Fields a prosperous career outside this House. I am confident that he would not have accepted the governorship of Hong Kong, even if it had been offered to him! May I take this opportunity to say how proud I am to be the first woman Member of Parliament for Liverpool since Bessie Braddock, who represented the Exchange division for so many years and who was first elected in the heady days of 1945. How I wish that I had been sent here for the first time in similar circumstances—with my party forming the Government and looking forward to a new future for Liverpool. However, that was, not to be. The result of the election places constraints upon us and has lowered our expectations. Liverpool has, however, undergone a sea change. I am now one of many who are prepared to examine the political realities facing us and to work in partnership with whoever has the best interests of Liverpool at heart. That is what the people of Broadgreen expect, but they also  expect the Government to listen and to take account of their very genuine concerns, particularly in this case—the future of their hospital. Broadgreen hospital trust sees itself as a community hospital. It offers a comprehensive range of high quality services to the people of Broadgreen, Old Swan, West Derby, Huyton and the city's eastern surround. In November 1989, my hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, West Derby (Mr. Wareing) raised the issue of Broadgreen hospital in a similar debate. The area health authority had commissioned a report from six eminent local clinicians called the ""Pan-Liverpool Review"". It examined the future of medicine in the city and many of its recommendations have been implemented successfully. However, one of its proposals was that the accident and emergency service in the city should be rationalised—to use the terminology of the marketplace, which we now have to recognise as the new ethos for what has become the health industry. Broadgreen district general hospital, as it then was, had to face the proposed closure of its casualty department. That decision remains the stated policy objective of Liverpool health authority and was confirmed as recently as two weeks ago at a meeting of the health authority and the community health council. My purpose in raising the issue is to ask the Minister to review that decision and to take account of the following changed circumstances: first, although the population of the city may still be declining, the catchment area for Broadgreen hospital has a stable population and will show growth over the next few years as the new housing estates being built around the district become occupied. The hospital's orthopaedic department serves the city's highest concentration of frail elderly people. The accident and emergency department acts as the gateway to this and other specialties that are provided on site. Secondly, the hospital's medical board and the new directors of the trust oppose the closure. In October 1989, the medical board published its opposition in a letter signed by all the senior medical staff, in which they said that they were concerned that the hospital would be unable to sustain a thriving acute medical and surgical service if the accident and emergency department were to close. Members of the medical board have made it clear to me that that still remains their view and the uncertainty surrounding the proposal is causing serious problems for the trust. The creation of the trust is a reason for not closing the casualty department, but I shall deal with that later. Thirdly, the community health council has consistently opposed the closure. In 1989, in reply to my hon. Friend the Member for West Derby, the then Under-Secretary of State for Health, the hon. Member for Kettering (Mr. Freeman), stated that if the community health council were consistently to oppose the closure the proposal would come to Ministers for final consideration after a period of public consultation. Two years later, that public consultation has not taken place. The department is, however, scheduled to close in 1993. I urge the Minister to allow further representations to be made before action to close the department is taken. Obviously, we all wish to see it remain open. The Secretary of State for Health has talked of allowing a period of stability to enable the traumatic changes that the Government have made to the health service to bed in. Labour Members have opposed the changes every step of   the way, and rightly so, but I agree that time must be allowed for staff to adjust to their brave new world and to show whether the Government's predictions of improved patient care can be achieved. For Broadgreen hospital, the need for a time of consolidation and stability is great. Its staff are worn out and tired of the constant reorganisation, and the uncertainty is undermining morale. The trust has made it clear that it wishes to retain and develop its casualty department. It pioneered in Liverpool the introduction of a clinical nurse practitioner to reduce waiting times. That has been successful and it deserves support and encouragement. I hope that the Government will issue a permanent reprieve. I always intended to make my maiden speech on this topic. However, as there has been no opportunity to raise it in a debate on health, I was pleased to be given the opportunity to raise it now and to hear what the Minister has to say. The changes caused by the establishment of an NHS trust and changes in the way in which the hospital is managed are very important factors which should be borne in mind before any final decision is taken about the future of the accident and emergency department. Public consultation is a necessary part of that process and I look forward to hearing what the Minister has to say.
