gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House for this my first contribution to a debate. Having listened with respect to the speech of the hon. Member for Southall (Mr. Pargiter), I express my regret that it did not contain more reference to what I think many hon. Members will regard as by far the most important sentence in the statement of my right hon. Friend the Minister which gave rise to the Motion before the House. That sentence was: The Government are determined … to carry through a long-term programme of modernising our hospitals.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT. 1st February. 1961: Vol. 633, c. 988.]   My right hon. Friend has claimed that that message has given renewed hope to those responsible for hospital administration through our hospital boards. It was my fate for a number of years to be a member of a hospital group management committee, the Shrewsbury Group. I can truly say that for many years it was a frustrating experience, and I can entirely endorse what my right hon. Friend has claimed, that he has now given us a new message of hope. The right hon. Member for Belper (Mr. G. Brown) listed in his speech a number of cases of waste in the National Health Service. So far as I was able to follow him, he did not list the item which to anybody who has served on a management committee is the outstanding example of waste in this Service, the need to spend money to keep going out-dated hospitals. In my hospital district, we have had cases in which we have had to spend tens of thousands of pounds to preserve buildings which we knew were not worth preserving. In my constituency of Ludlow, there is a hospital which we call a hospital only by courtesy. It is thought better that in the Welfare State it should be so called, although we all know that in fact it is a workhouse. which was built in 1838. It was built of stone which is now crumbling inside and outside. It was built in the form we so well know, the form of a cross with a central structure and four courtyards. In the basement and the ground floor we have modernised the kitchen. Meals have to be carried up a narrow, winding stone stairway to patients on the first floor. Fortunately, they do not have to be carried to the second floor because that has been condemned as unfit for any use whatever. In the central structure on the first floor, one goes straight into the world of Dickens, by entering that curious octagonal chamber which some hon. Members may have experienced, where four doors lead into the four arms of the building and four windows overlook the four courtyards. From one of the windows one has a view of the stone-breaking cells where casual visitors were put in former days, and one can see the metal grille through which at the end of the day they had to throw the broken stones. I visited this hospital a few days ago. The feature of this hospital, which I am afraid is typical of many of our old hospitals, is that in essentials it does not change but in inessentials it changes all the time. Such essentials as lifts, X-ray departments and an operating theatre, of course we do not have. But on nonessentials there is poured forth a never-ending stream of public money. We paint the walls. If the stone will take the plaster, we plaster the walls. We re-arrange the rooms and put up partitions. We pull up the stone flags and put down new floors. We try to improve the lighting. We have even converted the stone-breaking cells into stores. We do all these things in the sure and certain knowledge that we are wasting and throwing away public money on a building which ought not to exist. We do so because we know that unless we do this, it will not be possible to keep that hospital in operation at all. Hon. Members will understand when I say that it has been a frustrating experience to be a member of a group hospital management committee. Hon. Members are no doubt aware, but is the country aware, of the state of the capital investment in our hospitals? An investigation was carried out some six years ago by the Institute of Economic and Social Research. The Institute estimated that in the 1930's, before the hospitals were nationalised—and taking account of differences in wages and prices—about £30 million a year was being spent on the capital reconstruction or building of hospitals. In the years which followed the institution of our National Health Service, the comparable figure, as the Minister has told us, was £9 million—£10 million—£11 million. It has risen, if I am right, to £25 million in the present year and will rise next year to £31 million. Under the programme which the Minister has announced it will rise to £50 million. The figures which I have given are an indication of the degree to which we have fallen behind even in the bare business of maintaining our standards. It was estimated by the secretary of the regional board under which I served that at the rate of progress achieved in the first seven years of our National Health Service, it would take 250 years to rebuild all the hospitals in that region. It is one of the great tragedies that when this scheme was launched in 1948 the public was left with the impression that we were unlocking a Garden of Eden into which they had only to enter to find everything perfect. As we know from these figures—and surely in cold print these figures are no less incredible than the Ludlow Hospital in cold fact—the National Health Service, financially speaking, has been living on the past. We have not even been paying for the present. Under the proposals which the Minister has put before us we shall not only be paying for the present but we shall begin to pay for the future. I suggest that the time is long overdue for the public to be shocked into an awareness of the situation. We are now being asked to pay for our present hospital service and to pay for the future. As one who has served in the service, I am glad that we are being asked to pay for it within the ambit of the service itself. I admire the Minister's courage, and I am sure that the vast majority of those who are engaged in the service will give him their fullest support. No one doubts or denies that this expenditure must involve a new and heavy liability on our community, but I believe that if the present proposals are courageously carried through, at whatever the cost to our own generation, we shall be doing something which will ensure that future generations will look back upon this as the starting point of a new and happier era of our National Health Service.
