gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That the Clause he read a Second time. I must ask the indulgence of the House for my maiden speech. I hope, too, that I shall have the understanding of the House for seeking what I imagine is the relative obscurity of this debate. My purpose in moving the new Clause is to draw attention to a type of economic regulator which would be of the greatest value in my constituency and which, I think, would also be of value to the economy as a whole. I should be failing to follow the example of my predecessor if I were not moved by the interests of my constituents. Sir Jocelyn Simon brought unfailing diligence, courtesy and charm to the service of his constituency, which will long be remembered in Middlesbrough and Thornaby. The good wishes of his constituents go with him in his new work. There is today considerable and quite genuine unemployment on Teesside. Were this not my maiden speech, I should content myself with blaming the Government, and I shall no doubt do so on future occasions, but, as it is, I must try to go further and, in the full knowledge of the real hardship on Teesside, seek to point to at least one cause and one possible cure not only of the immediate difficulty, but of this type of difficulty in general. The principal cause of the unemployment on Tees-side at the moment is the recession in the demand for steel, particularly at the heavy end of the steel industry. It is not only the direct unemployment and redundancies which have occurred, but also the consequential reduction in overtime, short-time working, and the general loss of trade in the area from which people are suffering. Our national accounts, let alone our regional accounts, do not enable anyone to give an estimate of the effect of this loss of income. The nearest parallel that I have been able to find in the way of serious studies is in the State of Utah, which, I understand, our American friends describe as the beehive State, and which, no doubt, has an identical economy with that of Tees-side. In Utah, a 100 dollar drop in steel sales has the effect of reducing the earnings of the employees of the steel industry by about 27 dollars, but when the consequential effect on other trades and industries in Utah are allowed for the personal income of people in the region drops by 102 dollars. This means that the income of the region drops by no less than four times that of direct employees in the industry. This would confirm my own observation in Tees-side and the experience of people like travel agents and the shops which report a general reduction in trade. 9.30 p.m. The main cause of this recession is a reduction in steel stocks which has greatly amplified the reduction in the genuine demand for steel by the consumers. I quoted from the Special Report on Development by the Iron and Steel Board in 1961. This says: Comparatively mild fluctuations in the output of the engineering and allied trades…seem to have been exaggerated three or four times in their impact on steelmakers. The House might like to bear in mind, when I read the next paragraph, that this no doubt bears the touch of Sir Robert Shone, now the Director-General of N. E. D. C. No doubt such fluctuations in steel demand are partly explained by credit restrictions at one time and by a desire not to be caught short of steel at another. Similar exaggerations are familiar in the United States, and elsewhere. But they are most undesirable, particularly from the point of view of the steel industry. During the exaggerated peaks of demand steel was imported that, with better timing, could well have been supplied more economically by home producers. The underemployment of those producers during recession was thus aggravated. Improved techniques in the management of the national economy, growing confidence by consumers in the ability of the steel industry to deliver steel quickly, and possibly the adoption of a stocking policy by producers ""— I ask the House to note this point— and others, aimed at assisting stability, would help to reduce such wasteful vagaries. But the threat of them must not be overlooked in providing for the future. A year after the publication of that Report, we are in precisely the same position. There have been continuing complaints from the Iron and Steel Board, from individual steel manufacturers, from the Iron and Steel Federation and from the trade unions representing employees in the steel industry. We have whole areas plunged into recession for precisely the reasons which were described in that Report. This is not only a problem in steel—. my own experience does not lie in that industry—it is also a great difficulty in textiles and in chemicals, to mention only two. In these industries, stock cycles in particular products cause variations of 10 to 20 per cent. in output from year to year. These variations   are lost in the figures for stocks for the country as a whole. They are lost even in the aggregate figures for individual companies and industries, and it is only when one looks at the output of a particular plant that one realises how serious this problem of stock fluctuations is. The House perhaps realises that, with these enormous fluctuations going on, industrialists find some difficulty in seeing just what the implications of this 4 per cent. per annum growth in gross domestic product mean. It is like looking for a needle in a rather rapidly moving haystack. This is a difficult technical question certainly, but it has the most dire human significance, and any hon. Member who would like to refresh his memory about the meaning and hardship of unemployment I would invite to visit my own constituency. Only this week the House was expressing concern about the difficulties at Fylingdales, but perhaps hon. Members do not know that the underlying reason for these difficulties is that the men on the job do not see the prospect of another contract coming along when this one expires. It is no accident that we find these difficulties in our most modern industries. There are technological factors behind it. There is the increasing scale of manufacture. There is the increasing, size of individual plants. There is the increased capital intensity, and the increasing capital per man employed. All these factors tend to increase the difficulty of this problem. I turn now to the general problem of the control of stocks. The cause is often a lack of knowledge and understanding of the broad pattern of demand at any time. We make a great mistake if we assume that people are perfect in their knowledge and perfect in their pursuit of their interests. This does not correspond with the daily experience of people in industry. We are very short of understanding and knowledge, and I am afraid that industry does not always do as much as it could to spread knowledge about its true position. Where a real effort is made to spread information, it has desirable results. I mention only the example of Courtaulds. In one product, rayon staple, the firm has succeeded in reducing the stock  changes as a percentage of consumption from 15 to 20 per cent. up to 1954, to less than 5 per cent. in recent years. and it has done this simply by spreading information throughout the textile industry about the real position of production at each stage, and giving full information about its own stocks. It is not always as easy to do this in other industries. We do not have firms which occupy the position occupied by Courtaulds in the rayon industry, but we would, nevertheless, benefit from an improved flow of information. Is it enough for the Government simply to exhort people to think, to exhort people to spread their knowledge? I do not think that it is, and the Government's experience of exhortation has perhaps not been too happy in recent years. In any case, looking at the problem from the paint of view of the economy, action has to go further. We have not only to avoid amplifying the cycles of the economy, but we should try to smooth them out. The new Clause proposes one type of general economic regulator aimed specifically at this problem. The intention is to encourage manufacturers to build up stocks to compensate for a recession in demand for their products, and so maintain full employment and avoid redundancy. It proposes to do this by going some way towards meeting the interest charges which manufacturers would have to bear by holding stock. Roughly speaking, the manufacturer would benefit for whatever period he held the stock in question, but this help would not be available from the Government except at times when that manufacturer was threatened by recession, and when, in the opinion of the Board of Trade, the recession was temporary. It is, of course, vital that the Board of Trade should act on the right products and at the right time, and the success or failure of this proposal would depend on the dexterity of the Board of Trade. Suppose a manufacturer increased his stock from 10,000 tons to 11,000 tons. He would receive the sort of allowance I have suggested. It might be in the form of an Income Tax allowance on the cost of that extra 1,000 tons for such time as elapsed until the stock again   fell below 11,000 tons. If hon. Members were able to use a blackboard in the House it would be a little easier to understand this, but I trust that there is no great obscurity involved. It is important for manufacturers to continue to bear risks to solve the technical problems involved in stocking dif- ferent products. These problems are serious and the new Clause suggests that manufacturers should be left to find the money to finance their stocks. Naturally, the stocks would be held in the normal trade channels. There is also the question of the definition of what is ""the cost"". If one could get economists and accountants to agree as to whether or not there was such a thing as a ""marginal cost"" it would be rather easier to define. As it is, just some broad suggestion might be given by the phrase ""the cost incurred in making stock which would not other- wise have been incurred had the stock not been made."" ""Subsidy"" is not a popular word and I understand that regulators which are specific to a particular industry are hardly more popular with hon. Gentle- men opposite. However, we should distinguish between subsidising particular industries all the time and stimulating any industry at appropriate times. This regulator does not act on the whole volume of production in any industry, but only on the margin that goes into stock, and, therefore, is much cheaper. How non-specific this regulator would be would depend on the way it was administered. Would it work from an economic point of view? There is in industry a tremendous built-in pressure to reduce stocks. A firm can lose £1 million worth of orders every four years due to not having sufficient stocks, but when the time comes in the trade cycle when it should be building up its stocks again in anticipation of a future rise in demand it is almost invariably argued that the same thing will not happen again, that this time the labour will be available, that new plant will be ready and that there will be no difficulty in the supply of raw materials. How- ever, the firm, for the saving of £10,000 to £20,000 in interest charges, will again lose this £1 million worth of orders. The events I have described represent the hard experience of industry. They are going on today—at a time when stocks should be being built up in anticipation of the demand we can expect in due course for reasons one should not touch upon in a maiden speech. As for the cost of such a scheme, the accumulation of stocks in the steel industry seems to depart from the trend by about £40 million and the interest charges to meet this would probably be not more than £2 million a year. In textiles, the departure from the trend seems to be about £30 million. Here, the cost would be only million. For the whole of manufacturing industry it is difficult to estimate the figure, but I would have thought that the departure would be about £400 million, for which the total interest charges might amount to £20 million. This is an extremely cheap regulator if it would enable us to operate at about £400 million a year nearer the limit of capacity. I think that there is a factor of about 10:20 between the cost of such an anti-cyclical policy and the rewards from it to the economy as a whole, and surely out of that increased production it would be possible for the State to recoup the cost of the regulators either directly from the industries or indirectly from general taxation. 9.45 p.m. There are, of course, real administrative difficulties in this scheme. I am sure that hon. Members who are not lawyers from time to time take refuge in the remarks made by Lord Keynes at the closing session of the Bretton Woods Conference in the United States. Lord Keynes wrote: When I first visited Mr. Morgenthau in Washington some three years ago accompanied only by my secretary, the boys in your Treasury curiously inquired of him—where is your lawyer? When it was explained that I had none, 'Who then does your thinking for you?' was the rejoinder. That is not my idea of a lawyer. I want him to tell me to do what I think sensible, and, above all, to devise means by which it will be lawful for me to go on being sensible in unforeseen conditions some years hence. Having sat through the final embellishments of the speculative gains tax in this Chamber in the last two days, I am filled with marvel at the ingenuity of the   Government draftsmen, and I have not the least doubt that they would find such a Clause as this comic relief after their labours of recent months. I do not defend the particular details of the Clause, and, indeed I do not intend to press it. But there is the broader question of how this fits in with the general pattern of development of economic planning. ""Neddy"" has been asked to consider the relation of production and capacity, and this will, of course, involve a consideration of stocks; but I am not sure that the Government can really afford to wait for ""Neddy"" or that this House would wish to do so. We must, surely, see the economy not just as a black box or, to translate this into non-engineering language, a system of levers to be cunningly manipulated from outside. The economy is men, and it must be the intention of any economic regulator to make men think, and I think that the regulators to which we have been treated, which have simply had the effect of increasing costs and prices, have failed in their function of making men think. If we are to encourage innovation in industry, we must surely seek innovation in our own approach to industry. We must be willing to experiment. I am sure that the standing of this House will not suffer if we start that process of experimentation in our discussions here.
