gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Throughout the length and breadth of this land there exist some strange, and even primitive, customs by which newcomers are initiated into a new life. For instance, I believe that those adopting the cooper's trade are incarcerated in a barrel and rolled around a yard. I know of a school where the custom is to rub a certain white berry which, fortuitously or not, appears on the bushes at the start of the new school year, into the hair of the poor unfortunates commencing as new pupils. However, such is the gentleness of the House to its fledglings that I take courage from the certainty that I am in no danger today from barrels or berries. The only ordeal is inflicted from within by one's own nervous reflexes. I understand that it is customary on these occasions for new Members to speak of their constituencies and their predecessors. I do this with justifiable pleasure and pride. Dame Edith Pitt was a very great lady. When I came here I very quickly discovered the depth of affection and respect that existed for her in all quarters of the House. The whole object of her life was service; and serve she did—her constituents, her country, and her party, with utter devotion and loyalty. Hon. Members will perhaps recognise that in choosing another woman the Edgbaston constituency was quite deliberately paying an important tribute to Dame Edith, for this is the first time a woman of the same party has ever succeeded a woman to a Parliamentary seat. What a seat it is. Edgbaston goes back in history to Anglo-Saxon times, although   I have no intention of tracing it all the way there this afternoon. Just over 100 years ago a great deal of it was laid out on pleasant, spacious lines, and I recommend those who believe that Birmingham is nothing but factory chimneys to visit my green and pleasant constituency. Here they will find the judges' lodgings, some very beautiful botanical gardens, a silver sweep of reservoir, a famous hospital, an important university, many excellent schools, a high-powered chamber of commerce, and a world-famous cricket ground. I am very proud to represent the Edgbaston constituency. Now to the Bill. I wish, first, to speak on Clause 42. I listened with very great anxiousness to what the Chief Secretary said about the Selective Employment Tax and I was, like my hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher), very bitterly disappointed that he was not more forthcoming with regard to charities. Perhaps I am over-optimistic, but I seemed to detect that there was a slight glimmer of hope and that at least the doors were not quite closed. If this is so, may I warmly recommend the right hon. Gentleman to yield to whatever impulses he may have to be more generous towards charities, because there certainly is every reason to be so. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has already told the House that the cost to the larger charitable institutions will be of the order of £2 million. For thousands of smaller charities, there is as yet no estimate, but we know, for instance, that Oxfam will be poorer by £10,800. The Royal School for Deaf Children—I have one in my constituency—must find £2,800. The Church of England Children's Society will lose £23,000. The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children will have to find no less than £30,000. There is an almost endless catalogue, and I have no doubt that some charities will be forced out of existence, unless something is done to alleviate the impact of this tax, because, although the British public is as generous as any public anywhere, I point out that it gives deliberately to certain causes. People will not give to the State, which they suspect is already taking more than a fair share from them in rates and taxes. I am sorry if this distresses the right hon. Gentleman, but I must tell him that, while the man in the street will buy a flag for charity, he will not buy one for the Chancellor of the Exchequer. State and local authority welfare services will certainly become less efficient. Speaking as one who has been engaged for some years in the practical application of these services, I can tell the House that these, by themselves, are not capable of meeting all needs. Without the aid of voluntary helpers administered by such bodies as my own Birmingham Council of Social Services, they cannot manage. There are the W.V.S. ladies, for instance, who carry out the meals on wheels service. There are the case workers and voluntary helpers who work in hospitals or with problem families. The Birmingham Council of Social Services says that it simply cannot afford to absorb the extra charge, which, I understand, will be in the region of about £1,000 a year. Children committees are often very glad indeed to place some of the children they have in care to a voluntary children's home. For one thing, these homes are very much cheaper than those run by local authorities. For another thing, particularly difficult cases, not perhaps acceptable to local authority homes, can often be accommodated in voluntary homes. This is because devoted workers put in hours of service for reward which is not only monetary. Ministries, too, ask the Y.M.C.A. to run hostels. How can such work be extended if this organisation, which I remind the House is one of the oldest of the recognised voluntary organisations, has to sustain an employment tax at about £124,000 a year? It seems to be neither wise nor just that voluntary bodies, already stretched to the limit of their resources, and using the maximum voluntary help for the minimum of paid staff, should be penalised. The Government must surely by now also be aware of the blow that the Selective Employment Tax is to music and the arts. For a country which is aiming at raising its standards of taste, I find it astonishing that the Government should smile upon juke box manufacturers and tax the philharmonic orchestras, should fine the museums and art galleries and yet give a subsidy for the manufacture of plastic gnomes. Perhaps the most incredible thing about all this is the army of extra civil servants needed to perform the complicated fiscal minuet of taking more than is needed and giving back more than is taken. The cost of this danse macabre will mop up a goodly portion of the money bled from charitable institutions. The gyrations of this strange dance are certainly very extensive. The Arts Council gets a grant from the Government amounting to £1,250,000; but the theatres, the orchestras and the ballet will have to pay almost the same sum back to the Exchequer. Local authorities give rate rebates to charities, but the Selective Employment Tax takes it away again. I am also deeply concerned about part-time workers. I am not really happy about what the Chief Secretary said, in his optimistic tone, about these women. Some are women, fitting in a job they can manage while their children are at school. Some are old-age pensioners. Some are disabled. It simply is not good enough to say that it does not matter, that these people will not be sacked, because it is the employer who pays the tax. With the employer paying just the same tax for them as for full-time workers, there is no doubt but that they will tend to become redundant. It is no use telling them that they must get a full-time job in a manufacturing industry. I hey will not, because they cannot. Another question disturbs me very much. Some enlightened health authorities set up sheltered workshops for handicapped people. Strictly speaking, I understand that this is not a ""service"" as listed in the explanatory leaflet about fie Selective Employment Tax. These people are frequently mentally handicapped people and they do contract work for local factories. They also do a great deal on the service side. For instance, some of them do laundry work. Are these workshops to be penalised? Undoubtedly, the tax will add enormously to their running costs. Whether a local authority will bear it and then have the money paid back again in another of these costly monetary manoeuvres so beloved of the Chancellor, I do not know. I understand that already warning signs are appearing to the effect that even  tax officials are of the opinion that the complexities of measures passed by the Chancellor are becoming too much to comprehend. It would seem that those drafting fiscal legislation either cannot or will not speak plain English. For example, I draw attention to Clause 38(3), which literally defies elucidation. It states: For the purposes of this section an interest including an interest limited to cease on death shall be treated as two separate interests one of which is the interest limited to cease on death, and an interest shall he regarded as one including an interest limited to cease on death if it is an interest under more than one title and one title is to an interest limited to cease on death, or if it is an interest which cannot terminate before the death, or which in certain contingencies not related to the death cannot terminate before the death. I tried out that subsection on three lawyers. Two of them said frankly that they could not make head or tail of it. The third said that he might be able to do something with it if I left it with him over the weekend. Is it not possible for Bills to be couched in phrases which are comprehensible to the hon. Members who pass them? Since coming here I have reached the conclusion that, if brevity is the soul of wit, there are too few witty souls in this place. Wit may desert one, the opportunity for brevity never. I now take it.
