gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is an honour to address the House for the first time.I apologise if in doing so I appear to be more nervous than is perhaps usual, but this is the first of two maidens that figure prominently in my life this week. The second maiden I am to marry on Saturday afternoon. To be elected I had to inflict defeat on two previous Members, Mrs. Winifred Ewing and Mr. David Myles. David Myles was a Member of the previous Parliament whose seat was absorbed in the boundaries changes. Lest his departure from the House might otherwise go unmentioned, let me say that during the election I found him to be a fair and honourable opponent. His interest lay in farming and he served on the Select Committee on Agriculture. His keen interest in and knowledge of farming was reflected in the fact that he achieved the highest Conservative poll in Orkney and Shetland in over 30 years. It is the tradition of the House that in a maiden speech a Member should pay tribute to his predecessor and I am proud to honour that tradition. I understand that I am the first Liberal in over 20 years to pay tribute to an immediate Liberal predecessor. Jo Grimond represented Orkney and Shetland for over 33 years, and for one third of that time he was leader of the Liberal party. I ant too young to say that I came into the Liberal party beaus of Jo Grimond, but the Liberal party that I joined in 1971 had been given a fresh hope and a new sense of direction by Jo. I have in my study a calendar, a sheet of which is torn off each day, giving a new motto. One which appeared recently said that a politician is one who looks towards the next election and a statesman is one who looks towards the next generation. By that criterion it would be fair to say that Jo Grimond can rightly claim to be described as an outstanding statesman. When he led the Liberal party some 20 years ago, he saw the need to reintroduce Liberal values and principles to the government of Britain. He was a man of vision who realised that that could not be done overnight, but he sowed the seeds for the realignment of British politics, the first fruits of which we tasted at the election. It is a challenge to me and my Liberal and Social Democratic colleagues to ensure that in the next election we reap a full harvest. Although Jo Grimond was a man with a national reputation, he was also a diligent constituency Member. Wherever I campaigned in Orkney and Shetland I was told by constituents, often from firsthand experience, of the amount of work and effort that he put into representing his constituency and individual constituents. As a new Member, I can do no better than seek to aspire to the high standards that my predecessor set. I represent the most northerly constituency in the United Kingdom. It is not, as some people still mistakenly believe, in a box somewhere to the east of the Moray Firth. Although in the past 10 years Orkney and Shetland have perhaps been most associated in the public mind with oil developments, that should not blind us to the fact that there are there many other profitable and worthwhile economic activities which make a valuable contribution to our  nation's economic welfare. There is a prosperous agriculture industry in Orkney, fishing in Shetland and the traditional knitwear and craft industry. The people of Orkney and Shetland show an enterprising and independent spirit, combined with a great commitment to the community and its welfare. That was well illustrated during the election campaign when I attended the opening of a community co-operative guest house and youth hostel on the small island of Papa Westray in Orkney, with a population of only 100. That venture showed me the determination that one fines in the islanders to sustain a viable community in spite of pressures of population decline, and it also showed the spirit of enterprise to which I have already referred. Oil development should not blind us to the fact that Orkney and Shetland have suffered economic problems. The recent herring fisheries crisis is only the latest of these. One of the most fundamental problems is that of transport costs, not only for bringing goods into Orkney and Shetland, but for exporting fresh produce. When the right hon. and learned Member for Monklands, East (Mr. Smith) a short while ago expressed considerable horror at the prospect of petrol reaching £2 per gallon, I. was tempted to remind him that for some time that has been the cost of petrol in my constituency. When we are dealing with a Bill that gives such substantial tax concessions to oil producers, it is about time that we started to think more seriously about giving concessions to all oil and petroleum consumers. A cry that has often come from the Liberal Benches is that there should be a differential rate of duty for petrol in remote and rural areas where a car is a necessity. It is not administratively impossible. If the political will were there, it could be done. Unemployment has hit Orkney and Shetland, as it has hit many other places. Although for some time the averages lay well below the national average, they have been increasingly creeping up. One person in eight in Orkney is unemployed. In Shetland at the weekend I met a man who informed me that out of his class of 20 who left school last year only three had managed to find full-time employment. It is against that background of considerable economic difficulty, which is perhaps looming more and more in the islands, that I give a general welcome to the Bill. Judging from reports and comments, the Bill, together with other measures that have already been enacted in the Finance Act and those which we are promised in an oil taxation Bill later this year, encourages the oil companies to undertake new exploration and developments in marginal fields. The question of what loss in revenue there will be to the Exchequer as a result has been raised. I have great sympathy with the Secretary of State in being unable to quantify this. We cannot tell what will happen without this measure. We cannot tell whether certain fields will not be brought into production, thereby producing no revenue in 10 or 15 years' time. It is not so much the monetary value of the Bill which is of particular help, but the incidence of the royalties. The oil companies have to pay royalties before a field is necessarily profitable and the cash flow assistance which the Bill gives is one of the most important factors. It has been welcomed by the oil companies as giving them the incentive to exploit and develop marginal fields. The rate of development may not be as exciting as the previous Secretary of State suggested. I think he said that   there would one new discovery or development every six weeks. None the less, during the election I was informed by oil representatives in Orkney that the effect of having to shelve some of the proposals because of the dissolution of Parliament had led at least one oil company to hold back from announcing new developments pending the outcome of the election to find out whether the proposed measures would be enacted. Nevertheless, there are prospects that new developments such as the Balmoral, Glamis, Andrew and Bruce fields could benefit from the Bill. The increased activity, with the prospect of new fields coming on stream in the 1990s when production from existing fields is diminishing, must be welcome news to those who are directly involved in the oil industry, particularly those of my constituents who work at the Flotta and Sullom Voe terminals. It also offers opportunities for onshore operations, about which I shall say more in a moment. Before doing so, I want to express two reservations. The right hon. and learned Member for Monklands, East suggested that we could lose the funds of huge new oil discoveries. The oil industry believes that it is extremely unlikely that another Forties field will be found. None the less, as a result of the Bill, we shall have two strands of oil taxation—one for the old fields and one for the new fields. If, in 1992 or 1993 a new field is making huge profits, it will not be beyond the wit of the Government to find a taxation device to ensure that some increased revenue is taken from it. The Bill relates to ""new fields"". It highlights the difficulties that are sometimes found in trying to define what constitutes a new field. The problem has already arisen in connection with certain developments that are arguably new and separate, but have already fallen within an existing ring fence. With these new concessions the definition of ""new fields"" becomes more important. While I accept that this is a complex issue, it might be helpful if the Secretary of State could tell the House whether he is working towards a clearer definition of ""new fields"" which will remove ambiguity and uncertainty. I referred to possible onshore developments as a result of the Bill. The measure would be all the more welcome if we could be certain that it marked a new Government approach to our North sea oil and gas industry and was not just another example of tinkering with the oil taxation system which has been so much a feature of our oil taxation regime over the past decade. It is not unfair to say that, to date, oil and gas related activities—offshore and onshore—have not been treated as an industry in its own right. Rather, Governments have seen the industry as a beast to be milked whenever revenue demands required it—an approach that has been made all the more attractive by the fact that soaking the oil companies for more taxation can always guarantee some electoral appeal. The 10 or 11 alterations in North sea oil taxation over the past decade appear to have been made without any regard to the destabilising effect that they can have on the industry, particularly the onshore industry. The changes have been made, apparently oblivious of the employment opportunities that can be offered by having a consistent policy geared to promoting offshore development. In Shetland, the recent downturn in oil activity has contributed to unemployment, particularly around the  Sumburgh area, where an almost ghost-town atmosphere has been created, but planned and continuous development is obviously preferable to boom-slump. A consistent tax regime allowing such planned development will allow the oil-supply bases which already exist in Shetland to seek new openings in specialised services and will give them the long-term confidence and incentive to provide more training for young people, and avoid any need to fly in skilled labour. Consistent policy will also open up the possibilities of oil-rig servicing and repair work for supply vessels. Indeed, even agriculture in Shetland is looking towards the offshore working population as a new market for the produce from their farms and crofts. This should not be seen as a parochial approach. Increased offshore activity can give great benefits to the nation as a whole. It will lead to greater orders for oil-rig construction. It will stimulate the engineering industry for the supply of such basic engineering components as pumps, valves and compressors, thus opening up employment opportunities throughout the United Kingdom. Furthermore, over the past 10 years we have as a nation developed considerable expertise in offshore technology, which will no doubt be extended even further when we start to exploit the deeper waters to the west of Shetland. When one considers that estimates suggest that during the next 20 years offshore discoveries could account for between one third and one half of all the world's new oil reserves, surely we in Britain have a great opportunity to obtain a significant share of a growing market. But to do so we must ensure now a continuous policy and continuous level of demand and development at home. The green light which has been signalled by the Government in their recent measures must stay at green and must not, because of a shift or a new need or requirement, be switched back to amber or red. I am grateful to the House for having had the courtesy to listen to my maiden speech in silence. It is probably too much to hope, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that the next time I am successful in catching your eye I shall be given such a clear run.
