gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I rise to make my maiden speech, I am well aware of the traditions of this House that new Members are expected to be nice and uncontroversial, to say nice and pleasant things, to sit down and then to descend to the Tea Rooms or the Bars for a well-earned pat on the back from one's peers. I shall at all times, where possible, respect this place and its traditions, but honesty with oneself is a prerequisite to honour, and no hon. Member representing working class people can, after eight years of this Government, come to this place from a Scottish constituency such as Clydesdale, listen to the Gracious Speech, knowing the further misery that this Government intend to inflict on the working class people of my constituency, and not be controversial. However, I intend to temper my remarks where I can, and I hope that I shall not strain the tolerance of the House too much or for too long. My first pleasant duty is to pay tribute to my predecessor, the right hon. Dame Judith Hart, who came to this place as Member for Lanark in 1959—the name of the constituency has now been changed to Clydesdale—and who served the constituency well for 28 years until her voluntary retirement. Judith is well known nationally and internationally, and made a tremendous contribution to working-class politics, both as a Minister in numerous posts in Labour Governments and as an excellent constituency Member of Parliament. She was an outstanding Minister for Overseas Development. That was one of her major contributions to politics. She was also a long-standing member of the Labour party's National Executive Committee and its chairperson in 1982. I am sure that all hon. Members on both sides of the House will join me in wishing Judith and her husband, Tony—who himself has made a major contribution to working class politics£all the best for the future. Clydesdale is a beautiful place in a most beautiful nation — Scotland. The people are friendly, hardworking and compassionate. Clydesdale is one of the largest constituencies in the United Kingdom. Obviously, agriculture and rural affairs figure largely in my  constituency, as do industrial and health care concerns. There are 11 hospitals, including Carstairs state hospitall, and the Ravenscraig steelworks, while outside the boundaries of the constituency, provides considerable employment to my constituents as it does for the rest of central Scotland. While it has no pits, Clydesdale has a deep-mining tradition. It was at Douglas colliery that I started my mining career 23 years ago as a coalface engineer. Sadly, the pit closure mania of the 1960s and early 1970s destroyed mining in Clydesdale, and caused me, in 1968, to uproot my wife and young son and to seek employment in the coal mines of the Nottinghamshire coalfields. I was one of the original industrial gipsies, and I now stand elected as Member of Parliament for Clydesdale, where I was born and bred. I liken this experience to the salmon coming back home from the sea to the fresh water. Nye Bevan once said of Britain: This island is almost made of coal and surrounded by fish. Only an organising genius could create a shortage of coal and fish. The Prime Minister and her Government are such organising geniuses. She has given away our fish to the Icelanders and the Russians, and because of her obsessions, she is destroying the mining industry — betraying the country's most natural resource on the altar of nuclear power, which this nation does not need or want. Unemployment in Clydesdale is more than 20 per cent., and with that demoralising and obscene statistic we have the evils of urban and rural deprivation. As well as deindustrialising Scotland and elsewhere, this Government have also destroyed our rural communities and public transport, closed rural schools and post offices and caused high unemployment in the farming industry with their gutless inconsistency towards agriculture. The Tory is a dying breed in Scotland. As we know, the Conservative Government won 10 of 72 seats. They are, indeed, a dying breed. Each time that the hon. and learned Member for Perth and Kinross (Mr. Fairbairn) graces the Conservative Benches after his customary good lunch, with his tartan trousers and all, we should savour the moment, because, having heard the Gracious Speech which will, if implemented, further devastate Scotland, we can safely say that after the next election the Scottish Tory will be no more. The hon. and learned Member will be extinct. The Government should not think that they can ride roughshod over the Scottish people, and if they attempt to privatise or close Ravenscraig the wrath of the Scottish nation will be such as to make the miners' strike of 1984–85 look like a picnic. Any Government who care about unemployment can cut it. Today, we hear talk of redistributing the burden of tax from the rich to the poor. The truth is that the Government do not care about unemployment, or the misery that it causes. I regret to say that nothing in the Finance Bill would give comfort to the poor, the sick, the unemployed or the elderly. The cynical synopsis of the Bill shows that it will be the same poison in the same bottle, only more than before. It was James Connolly who said: Any Government that does not seek to improve the quality of life for its poorest citizen is immoral. This Conservative Government stand condemned by his immortal words, and will stand equally condemned by the nation for their immorality. It is appropriate, in my maiden speech, to pay tribute to my fellow trade unionists and former workmates. I   record my sincere thanks to my union—the National Union of Mineworkers—for its support over the 23 years during which I was a miner. I pledge my full support to the victimised miners and their families who are still sacked by British Coal two and a half years after the miners' strike. I call on the Secretary of State for Energy to stop the victimisation at once and to instruct British Coal immediately to reinstate the victimised miners. I am sure that he, more than any other member of the Cabinet, will appreciate the evils of victimisation, having just returned to the Cabinet after four years—himself a victim of such treatment. As one who stood by the gallant striking miners of Nottinghamshire I wish to pay tribute to Henry Richardson, our general secretary, and to Ray Chadburn, our president, who, along with the 5,000 NUM Nottinghamshire miners, are now fighting for free trade unionism in the Nottingham coalfield against a demagogic British Coal mangement. I call on British Coal and the Secretary of State for Energy to seek the reconciliation of the coal industry and to give proper recognition to the NUM in the Nottinghamshire coalfield. I can assure all hon. Members that, as long as the free spirit of trade unionism exists, as long as the free spirit of resistance of working class people exists, this Government will never defeat the working people of this nation.
