gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I claim the indulgence of the House, first, to make my maiden speech, second, because I intend to refer to rather local matters which may not interest many Members, and, third, because I have to follow the hon. Member for East Aberdeenshire (Mr. Boothby), which is a hard task. I think that I may claim to some extent to be neutral in this controversy. On the bench on which I sit, I am sometimes accused of being a representative of the Celtic fringes. Far be it from me to say anything against the Celts. But I represent a constituency even beyond the Celtic fringes, in which Celtic or even Welsh has never been spoken. The proposal made by my hon. Friend the Member for Roxburgh and Selkirk (Mr. Macdonald) I personally support, though not in the least on nationalist grounds. I agree that if it is to be treated so as to cause enmity between the Scots and the English it will be fatal. I feel that, at present at.any rate, it is a question of efficiency of government, and to  some extent of getting attention paid to some of our own problems in Scotland. These are special problems, many of which do not affect the English. I do not for a moment suggest that they will be solved merely by giving us a measure of self-government, but I do suggest that they are special problems, and that it is our business to consider how they may best be tackled. I also suggest that this is one method which we might at least consider. Orkney and Shetland, which I represent are two little worlds of their own, far away between this country and Norway, very different from each other even in their own land and their own economic affairs, but certainly very different from things down here. Since the war they have, on the whole, enjoyed a fair measure of prosperity, for which we are naturally grateful, and we pay full tribute to this and past Governments which have made it possible. But, lately, there have been very serious clouds over the future of Shetland. We are a country of crofters and fishermen, poor people in a small way of business. We have to depend a great deal on the qualities of our wool and the skill of our girls and women who knit, but the prices for both wool and knitting have been falling, and we have had a very bad herring season. As the hon. Member for East Aberdeenshire has said, we are now faced with this serious matter of freight charges on fish. If white fish is decontrolled, we may have to pay a freight charge which will be an almost intolerable burden on all small fishermen, especially in the North of Scotland, and nowhere more seriously than in Shetland. At the same time, we have to suffer this addition to the Purchase Tax on tweed. Year after year, many Shetlanders go into the Merchant Navy, or to the Antarctic to the whaling, but they hope to return, and many desire nothing better than to make their own lives in their own islands, however hard it may be. We have heard a great deal about the determination of all parties to maintain full employment, but unfortunately we already have unemployment in Shetland. Now, I know that the present problem facing this country is to close the dollar gap; but beyond that there are many   other problems. There is the whole problem of re-organising our economy in the circumstances of a greatly changed world, and I, believe that in the future we shall find that, while in one part of the country, or in one industry, we have too few workers and a need for greater production, there will be pockets of unemployment growing up in other places. One of those places just now is Shetland. We are very apt to talk of these matters in general terms, of production, employment, dollars, and so on, but it is, as we all know, a human problem. It is not enough to say that the Shetlanders should leave their homes and go south to find work elsewhere There is a great deal which could be done in their own land. In two of the islands, from which the fishermen work and provide for their own and our food supplies, they have neither adequate roads nor harbours. We are desperately in need of piers and, in spite of what has been done, of housing, and it seems to me a false economy to stand in idleness if it means that these men have to leave their country and come south, as they have already done from some islands. It may be better, even at this time, to spend money on putting into effect a programme for roads and harbours. I do not want to be controversial, but I do think we are spending money on many things which are of less value and give less return than would attention to some of the things of our own countryside. In Orkney, too, we are in desperate need of houses. We are making a great contribution to the food supply of this country, but our needs are not the same as those in the south. The type of house suitable for the south is not necessarily suitable for us in the north. It is very expensive to build, and we have got into the way of building some more temporary types of houses which are suitable in some ways for a county inhabited largely by people who own their own small farms. I hope that more encouragement can be given to people to use what they can supply themselves, to use local materials and skill, because in the crofting areas of Scotland we have men of different varieties of skills, and we are capable of doing a great deal more for ourselves if given the opportunity, and if materials and grants are available. Above all, there is the problem of transport. Again, this is a problem of infinitely greater significance in the north and far north than in the south. I believe that in this Parliament there is a possibility that contentious business will not be very much to the fore, and I wonder whether this will not give us an opportunity to attend to the special problems of that great area from Perth right up to the north of Shetland and out to the Outer Isles. A lot of the things which require to be done there are not in dispute between the parties. I agree that it affects only very few people, and that looked at from the point of view of Great Britain as a whole it may be a small matter; but looked at from the point of view of Scotland it is an important matter; and looked at from the point of view of the people who live there it is a vital matter. Now I turn to the question of Scottish self-government. We do not in the least want to break away from England. All we say is that if, as may well be the case, we have not the time here to consider all these matters, then give us the opportunity to do it ourselves. The hon. Member for East Aberdeenshire has said that this self-government is contrary to the growing movement for unity in Europe. I hardly think he can really believe that. No one suggests that giving self-government to Ceylon broke up surely and for ever the friendship which existed between this country and Ceylon; no one suggests that by introducing federal government in any country—which is one of the commonest forms of government in the world,—one is thereby stirring up national hates and enmities. Of course, if this question is approached in a spirit of enmity it will be a failure. There are also many difficult problems, such as were mentioned by the hon. Member for Aberavon (Mr. Cove) concerned with finance and practical politics, and if as a first step it was decided to have an inquiry, such as was asked for by the hon. and gallant Member for East Perthshire (Colonel Gomme-Duncan), I would certainly agree to it as a first step. I only say, let us examine this matter impartially and without any feeling of enmity or bitterness. My hon. Friend has made a practical proposal, and I am interested in it   because I think it might get some attention paid to problems in the North of Scotland, which have been put off from generation to generation. True, lately the drift from the North has been arrested to some extent, and I give full credit for it. But I think hon. Members will agree that there is a doubt about the future, and that even though that drift has been arrested, it has been arrested, partly at any rate, because it has been diverted into the towns of the north, and it is not so certain that the drift in the landward and crofting areas has been finally stopped and reversed. The towns have certainly gained, but I do not think it is so certain that the landward areas or the Outer Islands have gained. I want to see what has been done made good and a further advance made. I do not want to look backward. I, too, want to look forward. I welcome what has been done, and I only hope that we can make it good and go on farther. I do feel that we should have more control over our affairs so that we shall not again have our problems pushed aside. Our own country would gain confidence if we had more control over affairs in our own country. This is a very common problem throughout the world, and I see no reason why this proposed solution should not lead to greater friendship in Europe. It may be that some form of federal government is the ultimate solution for all Europe. It has been the policy of the Liberal Party for some 30 years, and I believe that it has also been the policy of the Labour Party up to nine years—it was certainly the policy of the Labour Party in Scotland. I also know that many members of the Conservative Party have advocated it, although not in the same form perhaps, and want to see an inquiry made into the possibilities. One of the most important things today is that government should be in close touch with the people. This does not seem to me to be a matter that can be put aside. The functions and scope of government are increasing every year, and must do, but many people in the country feel that the Government is a remote and even a faintly hostile affair which is not their concern. By tackling this problem we shall do something to bring government back nearer to the ordinary people.
