gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that in what I say I may have the indulgence of the House. Hon. Members will agree that it is often said that eloquence hides a lack of sincerity. Therefore, if I am rather hesitant, I hope it will be realised why that is so. I also crave the indulgence of the House if I err by being contentious, because I received my political education both in Poplar and Devonport. As citizens, people enjoy certain rights and privileges but, in return, they are expected to meet certain obligations and responsibilities. The contributive aspect of citizenship is often given less emphasis than the privileges which are obtained through the development of the social services. Few citizens do not desire to take their full share in paying their way according to their ability. On the question of housing, I want especially to emphasise Clause 5, which shows that the Minister is anxious to help people according to their ability. I also welcome the new drive in slum clearance areas. In recent years it has been possible to eliminate the evils of poverty and want, and to make a great inroad into the problem of disease, but far too many people are still living in unbelievable squalor. That is a matter of great shame to us. There are, however, many good houses in these slum clearance areas. Often they are privately owned,  and I hope that the individuals living in them will be given some consideration when the areas are taken over for clearance. They will only add to our housing lists, and if they were given better compensation they could find their own homes or rent them, whichever they preferred. I also want to draw attention to Clause 3 (3, b) in connection with prefabricated houses. We have a great many of these in Plymouth—especially the American type—which are already getting into disrepair. The main problem arises from the fact that many of these houses are placed among terraces of houses, upon former bombed sites. Although they are not slums, they will necessarily have to be pulled down in accordance with reconstruction schemes, and we want to know how the subsidy provisions will be applied in those cases. I would draw special attention to the circumstances which exist in Plymouth. This town lost many houses during the blitz, and the reconstruction of the city —and the way in which it has been built up since the war merits congratulation—has displaced another 350 families. There are still 400 families in requisitioned houses. A special difficulty in the case of Plymouth is caused by the extension scheme for Devonport Dockyard, which has displaced another 234 families. Plymouth is a very low-earning area, and although employment is at the highest point it has reached for a very long time, over 1,500 employable people are unemployed. In addition, 1,000 are on National Assistance, out of a population of about 218,000. Plymouth City Council is a Socialist council which, since 1949, has exercised a differential rents scheme. We know the incomes of the tenants. It may be of interest to hon. Members to know that 86½ per cent. of the tenants have an income of between £6 and £9, and only 2½ per cent. have an income of more than £12 10s.
