gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I come to this House to represent Sheffield, Brightside. It is an industrial seat and part of the great industrial city of Sheffield. It is a city which has more women workers than any city in the country. Some of them are widows. The issue which has been raised with me more than any other is that working widows have their pensions tacked on to their earnings and are thereby heavily taxed. Many of them feel that they would be better off drawing social security benefit although they would rather work. I come here not only to represent Brightside but as the only sponsored Member for farm workers. My background was entirely rural until I became the Member for Brightside. I am the daughter of a smallholder. As I come as a sponsored Member for farm workers, I speak for one of the lowest-paid groups. At the moment farm workers are on a basic rate of £25 a week. It would be a mistake to think that the only people who like in poverty are pensioners. Low-paid people, and particularly those with families, are often living in poverty. Low pay in agriculture goes with the tied cottage system. I regret very much that its abolition was not stated in the Gracious Speech. I have tabled an early-day motion to that effect. The tied cottage system is an issue that is vital to farm workers. Although I represent an industrial seat, I have the full backing and support of my constituency to put forward the farm  workers' case as an issue of vital importance. One reason for my having my constituency's unanimous backing is that my constituents understand the human problems brought by the tied cottage system in agriculture. The system means that a man's home is dependent upon his job. I believe that that is unacceptable. It would be unacceptable to me and I do not like to impose on others that which I consider unacceptable. Some people may be happy with the tied cottage system until they have a disagreement with their employer. They will then find that they can lose their job and the roof over their head. It means that if an agricultural worker has an accident and can no longer work, he will suffer the same fate. It means that those over 50 years of age are likely to be in trouble. It means that if a person is ill he has to struggle against his illness to avoid meeting the same fate. There cannot be a stronger sanction over anybody than the fear that the roof can be taken from over his head. What is the end product of the situation? The result is that our people are often dragged through the courts despite the fact that they may have given years of honest work. None the less they are eventually dragged through the courts so that their employers may obtain possession of their homes. We can imagine what people feel in that situation. It costs my union £10,000 a year to defend those who go through the courts. We would rather put that money into the union's funds than into the lawyers' pockets. The present position is that 50 per cent. of farm workers live in tied cottages. As the number of farm workers has reduced, the percentage living in tied cottages has increased. There is a connection between tied cottages and low pay in agriculture. It is clear that if the farmers were not able to offer the bait of a cheap house at the time of a housing shortage, they would have to pay the rate for the job. That is why the tied cottage issue is so important to farm workers. It is clear that it is closely related to low pay in agriculture. When people are consistently on low pay—and nobody has been on it more consistently than farm workers—they tend to lose their self-respect and self-confidence. This may be even worse than being on low pay. The farmers were given security of tenure by the 1947 Act. If farmers are   entitled to security of tenure, the farm workers must have a similar entitlement. They help to produce 50 per cent. of Britain's food. In doing so they help to control our trade gap. I am sure we all appreciate that we can do with all the help we can receive in that direction. The position today is that agriculture is in a mess. I believe that that is because of our unconditional entry into the Common Market. The farmers allowed the Tories to take us into the Market without a whimper. The stockmen are now crying about their difficulties but they were asking for the end price. Of course, they could never be sure that they would get it. Today we have high prices in the shops for beef but low prices for the farmers in the markets. I have a long memory of agricultural matters and I remember that the end price was never any good in the long term. The farmers have burnt their fingers and they are now demanding a return to guaranteed price support. They want the end price when prices are crashing through the ceiling and they want guarantees when they are in difficulties. In other words, they want the best of both worlds. Agriculture was never better than under the 1947 Act. It then had security and the opportunity to expand. However, even with those conditions the farm workers remained low paid. That is their position today. They are on a basic rate of £25 a week. Agriculture has a twentieth century approach when it is considering new techniques but an eighteenth century approach when it is considering wages. Part of its eighteenth century approach is the persistent fight which is put up to retain tied cottages and low pay. I say that tied cottages must go and that they will go when a Labour Government—I hope it is this one—have the political will to do away with them.
