gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me. Like other hon. Members, I have experienced considerable difficulty in composing a maiden speech which avoids controversy in this Budget debate. However, my task would have been even harder had I spoken in the previous debate on the Kiribati Bill, since rather early in my parliamentary career—and perhaps a little recklessly—I chose to vote against the Government. I take this opportunity to reassure my Whips that this decision had more to do with my training as an anthropologist than with any inherent Bolshevik non-conformist tendencies. I refer first to my predecessor Ray Carter, who represented Birmingham, Northfield for the past nine years. I know that he was highly regarded by Members on both sides of the House and that he enjoyed a good reputation in Northfield for hard work in the constituency. That is a reputation which it will be difficult for me to live up to. For the last three years of the previous Government Ray Carter served in a ministerial capacity in Northern Ireland. That was a most difficult job, which he carried out with distinction. I am sure that the House will join me in wishing him well. The constituency of Northfield, which represent, is a partly industrial and partly residential suburb of South Birmingham. Much the largest employer in Northfield is the giant British Leyland works at Longbridge, which employs about 19,000 people. It is one of the largest car assembly plants in Europe. Many of my constituents also work at Cadbury's Bournville factory, which is situated in the neighbouring constituency of Birmingham, Selly Oak, where the House will not be surprised to learn I was, until recently, employed. In recent times success in the Conservative Party seems to have been closely   related to one's involvement in the grocery trade. I cannot claim to be a grocer or the son of a grocer, but I am the great grandson of a grocer. However, by the time I entered the grocery business of my great grandfather, John Cadbury, it had somewhat changed its scale of operations. I spent my first two years there as foreman in the ""Crunchie"" department. During that time I inflicted upon the British public a quarter of a billion of these most desirable articles of confection. Birmingham, Northfield typifies much of Birmingham and the West Midlands in its dependence on the motor industry. It is not just the assembly of motor cars which is important to the West Midlands as a provider of employment. In addition, there is the production of motor components. The fortunes of such companies as Lucas, GKN, Dunlop and Birmetals are inextricably linked to British Leyland, Chrysler and Ford. In the West Midlands about 250,000 people are employed directly or indirectly in the vehicle industry. Every time the car importers increase their share of the British market—and last month they accounted for 56 per cent. of it—jobs are threatened in 600 Midland firms. The life of this Parliament will probably decide whether or not a British-owned motor industry will survive. I welcome the Chancellor's courageous Budget for bringing back greater incentives for workers and managers in industry. He has pointed the economy in the right direction and it is now up to business men to respond by investing with confidence. But I ask Ministers to remember that the British motor industry needs to be given time to recover its strength. It is still the lifeblood of the Midlands. Its collapse would leave Birmingham an industrial desert and the effect on the nation's balance of payments would be catastrophic. The House will understand the immensity of the task facing people like Sir Michael Edwardes who are striving to rebuild our motor industry. There are many internal reasons for our weakness in this area, including the low level of investment in the 1960s, two decades of poor industrial relations and failure to produce new models to the right design. These wounds were self-inflicted, but there is one major external obstacle in the path of Sir Michael for  which successive Governments must take responsibility. That is regional policy. Regional policy has done serious damage to the motor industry over the last 15 years. It induced managements of motor companies to disperse their new factories all over the country, against their better judgment. The result of this is, for example, that the door of a Mini starts its life in Swindon; from there it proceeds to Llanelli; it then goes to Casthle Bromwich; and it is finally installed on a finished car at Long-bridge. It takes four factories to make a car door. By contrast, in the Volkswagen factory at Wolfsberg bits of metal go in one end of the factory and complete Volkswagens emerge from the other end. If we are to survive as an industrial nation we must allow firms to make their own decisions about where they build new plants, according to strictly commercial criteria. Otherwise we shall continue to kill off whole industries, to the detriment of our entire economy. That will do no region any good. While I welcome the Budget, I ask Ministers to take a hard look at regional policy and to adjust it so as to prevent further damage to the British economy in general and to the motor industry and the West Midlands in particular. I thank hon. Members for being so tolerant of me in this, my first speech in this honourable House.
