gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great fear and trepidation to address this House for the first time, and I therefore ask the indulgence of the House. This may seem a very curious topic on which to speak for the first time, but I do so for two reasons. The first is because I have the honour to represent a large agricultural area in Cheshire, the Eddisbury division, in which there are many small farmers, who are keenly interested in artificial insemination. Secondly, I wish to speak about this subject, because I have the honour to serve on a committee appointed in an advisory capacity on this subject by the Minister, which he has already mentioned. It seems to me that the chief use of artificial insemination, for the time being, is to help small farmers. Half the   farmers in this country farm less than 50 acres. Some 67 per cent. of the farmers in this country own 15 cows or less. Therefore, the vast majority of farmers are very small men, and they cannot afford to keep an adequate bull, so they use any old bull which they can in the district, which is what is known as a scrub bull. We know that a scrub bull costs about £40 a year to keep and maintain. Therefore, it is wholly uneconomic for these bad scrub bulls to be used, when, by artificial insemination centres, a very much better type of bull could be at the service of small farmers. We know that a vast number of cattle in this country are very badly bred. They are cross-bred and they produce comparatively little milk. The average gallonage per cow at the present time is something like 500 gallons, which is very low indeed. That means that there are very large numbers of cows producing less than 500 gallons, because we know that there are many which are producing far more, say, up to 1,000 gallons. There is no reason why herds should not be established all over the country, and improved to produce 700 or 800 gallons per cow, but it cannot be done on present lines. I believe that as artificial insemination increases—it will have to be done slowly to begin with—very much better bulls and very much better stock will be at the disposal of these small farmers. That is the principal reason why I urge the passing of this Bill. Reference has been made to disease, which is very great in some districts. It is known that certain of these diseases such as contagious abortion and trichonomiasis can be largely controlled by artificial insemination. At present, the bull is often infected by a cow, and then the bull transmits the disease to another cow. In some districts the spread of disease is so great that the small farmer is having the greatest difficulty in getting his cows in calf. It is known that disease is spread considerably in this way. It is also known that certain diseases can be controlled to a large extent by means of artificial insemination. That is another very urgent reason for increasing artificial insemination centres. I have already said that at present it costs probably a minimum of £40 a year to keep even the worst scrub bull. If a man has a small typical herd  of 15 cows, that is very expensive for him. The artificial insemination centres are proposing to charge, for commercial cattle, about 25s. a service for a first-class bull. When I say ""a first-class bull"" I mean that the bull shall have a milk record behind him for two or three generations. That is of the greatest importance. We know that the influence of milk can be increased by breeding, and if one gets a soundly bred bull, with adequate milk and butter fats behind him, that will be passed on to the progeny, and is much the quickest way of improving the dairy livestock of the country. For those reasons I wish to see this Bill become an Act, because I feel it can be of enormous help to the great body of small farmers in this country.
