gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hesitate to impose on the House another maiden speech. However, I was greatly encouraged by the right hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Isaacs), who suggested that I should ""Come on in as the water is fine."" If by any chance I should appear to be swimming in rather deep water, I trust that I may have the indulgence of the House and be excused if occasionally I accidentally enter into the streams of controversy. I am prompted to participate in this debate because, like many areas in the country, this subject particularly affects my division of Ealing, North. Mention of that division will remind the House of the departure of a gentleman who was at one time certainly one of its institutions; one who I understand was very well respected on both sides of the House. Whilst I found that my disagreements with him were not confined to the political field, I also found that he was a most gracious and courteous adversary. Ealing, North, as hon. Members will deduce, is a part of the Borough of Ealing. I hesitate to advance its claims as the most important part, particularly in the presence of my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, South (Mr. Maude). Hon. Members will understand that to me it is of supreme importance. In the years since the war the borough has played a very notable part in the housing drive. In the statistics published up to March, 1949, it held first place in the country, and at no time in the five years during which the statistics have been published has it dropped below fifth place. As a result, in my division there is approximately one council dwelling for every six dwellings. I have spent much time meeting constituents all over my constituency, and I find that they consist of council house dwellers, those who dwell in ordinary rented houses, and owner-occupiers. I am much impressed by many of the arguments brought forward by my constituents. The constituency was largely built in the 1930's and subsequently. By virtue of that fact many of those who are   owner-occupiers have completed the purchase of their houses and have now retired. There are also very many other cases where the homes are still being purchased. I find that in both cases these people have one thought in common. These people feel that they are doing their best to make provision for themselves, their wives and families. Very often, however, they find the costs, the payments to building societies, payments for rates and repairs, extend their available means as far as they should be stretched. Their concern is—and this has frequently been expressed to me—that they can point to others who, for one very good reason or another, have not been able to make that provision and are in consequence, living in rented houses let by the council. They raise no objection to people living in these houses, but to them it is an intolerable burden that in many cases they have to assist in artificially depressing the rents of certain council tenants who, they state, are very often in receipt of higher incomes. They look at the council houses—particularly those developed since the war—and note that they contain very many attractive amenities. Many council houses I have seen have fitted kitchens—a thing I certainly do not have—and refrigerators and washing machines. All those things are very attractive and extremely desirable, but my friends who are owner-occupiers feel that they should not be asked to contribute so greatly towards the rents of those who live in those circumstances. I state these complaints I have received without comment. Hon. Members generally will agree, I think, that the case is one which should attract an element of sympathy, although hon. Members may not agree on the solution to the problem. The point I should like to make is that the misfortunes of widowhood, sickness and hardship are not the monopoly of those who live in rented houses. On the other hand, also in my constituency—some 16 per cent. of that constituency—are a number of council house tenants. They live in flats, houses—traditional and prefabricated—and in hutments. There are many on the waiting list. Some of these undoubtedly have been able to provide themselves  with some additional pleasures—the television set and the motor car we hear so much about. I would underline the fact that the presence of a motor car outside a house does not necessarily mean that the person inside the house enjoys a very high level of living or income. Many of my constituents have a motor car outside their council house because they must have it for the purpose of earning their living. I also want to make it clear that we should not avoid drawing a balance on generalisations of this kind. There are too many of these generalisations. I want to be sure that those who find that their economic circumstances are difficult, who in my opinion are very often those who should have first call on council houses, do in fact have first call. I recognise that this is a local matter, and I am not anxious to interfere with local politics, but I must point out that in my division it has been expressed to me by a number of borough councillors that they are concerned at the number of people who come to them with urgent housing needs but are not able to meet the present level of council house rents. It is for that reason—at least so it was expressed to me—that they have introduced a differential rent scheme. I attended a meeting which was arranged specifically for council tenants to hear how the scheme worked. As one might expect, I found that there was concern among the tenants at any increase in rent, but their main concerns were for the condition of some of the new properties—I offered to go round and inspect them, but my offer has not so far been taken up—and the method of assessing their ability to pay. Perhaps one of the greatest means tests of all is Income Tax. I would hope that there might possibly be some measure which enables those authorities who have to assess means at all to do it all together. I should like to express my great appreciation to the House for the courtesy it has extended to me.
