gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The delivery of a maiden speech must be one of the very few occasions when a Member of this House appreciates to the full the truth of that old adage: it is good to speak, but it is better to remain silent. I wish, therefore, to ask the indulgence of the House on this occasion, because I intervene in this debate as it is a matter of great concern to my own constituents in Wycombe. That constituency, as hon. Members know, contains many manufacturers of furniture of all sizes, and is a centre—I might almost say the centre of the furniture industry. Having listened to the speech delivered by the hon. Member for Edmonton (Mr. Albu), which I followed with the closest attention, there is one thing upon which I find myself in agreement with him, and that is in his dislike of taxation on furniture. He will forgive me if I do not follow him in the other matters he raised because, by tradition, one is supposed to be non-controversial in one's maiden speech. Therefore, I will have to restrain myself and not reply to some of the points he made, much as I should have liked to do. The art of taxation, I believe Colbert said, consists of plucking the maximum number of feathers from the goose with the minimum amount of hissing. There has been a good deal of hissing as a result of this Purchase Tax Order, but I think it is fair to say that since the Order was published there has been a slight note of some surprise and relief in the hissing which followed. I think the industry was quite pleasantly relieved at the rather more generous treatment they got from the Chancellor than had been anticipated, but the fact that the burden of taxation is rather less than was thought strengthens, rather than otherwise, the argument to remove taxation upon furniture, especially domestic furniture. It has been estimated that the new tax will yield about £8 million in a year. I very much doubt whether the yield from domestic furniture alone will come anywhere near that figure, especially when we remember that the previous yield from all sources was between £4 and £5 million, and that the yield on domestic furniture only was not more than about £1 million. I would not have thought, therefore, that it would have been a very great burden on the Exchequer, if at least they fixed the new D line at the same height as the old maximum price under the previous Utility Scheme. It would not, I think, have been an intolerable burden for the Exchequer to decide to free furniture from this tax altogether. However, I realise that the demands today on the nation's purse are such that the Chancellor may not be able to release any source of revenue, however insignificant, and for that reason I do not propose to press the point at this moment, except I should like to place on record the fact that I personally consider that Purchase Tax as a whole is an extremely bad form of taxation, imposing on Government and industry alike a complex administration which penalises craftsmanship and design. I hope that when the whole question of Purchase Tax is considered, as it may be in the future, that furniture will be among those given a first priority for relief entirely from this very bad form of taxation. If we have to have Purchase Tax on furniture, the D Scheme is some improvement on the Utility Scheme which went   before, although I know that everybody does not share that point of view. Perhaps I might deal with one point that has been expressed both inside and outside this House, and particularly by the National Union of Furniture Trade Operatives, and that is the fear that the quality of the furniture manufactured will deteriorate as a result of the removal of the Utility specifications. I, personally, feel that those who take this point of view are allowing their zeal to protect the interests of the consumer, to cause them to be unjust to the manufacturers and, for that matter, to the retailers. Why should it be assumed that there is a far greater percentage of unscrupulous manufacturers in the furniture industry than in any other industry? Why should it be assumed that retailers are not capable of recognising and rejecting inferior goods which might damage their goodwill, and why should it be assumed that they are not to be trusted to recognise and reject shoddy furniture? I think that that assumption is unfair to the trade as a whole. We have heard that the industry is setting up its own quality standards and we will hear more about that. I do not know on what grounds the hon. Member for Edmonton stated that the standards were likely to be lower than those of the Utility specification. My own information is that they are likely to be higher, and furthermore, this effort of performance tests may have far-reaching and beneficial effects on the production of furniture as a whole. I would remind hon. Members on both sides of the House that the situation in the industry is a little different from what it was before the war. It was one of the first to set up a joint industry council and it has its Furniture Development Council. Both these bodies are there and can be used, if necessary, to watch the interests of the furniture industry and to check any tendency that might manifest itself for a diminution and deterioration of quality. Recently there was a report in the trade Press of the Northern Trades Furniture Exhibition which dealt with furniture introduced since the D Scheme. There was no sign of a falling off in quality, rather the reverse, and the Press has given the Exhibition very favourable notice indeed. Some other matters are covered by the present scheme. For example, as the  hon. Member for Edmonton mentioned, there are a number of anomalies. I would like to mention one or two more of them. One is the exclusion of metal kitchen cabinets. The second is the very low D line on which dining room chairs have been put. As I understand the matter, the industry has made representations about these anomalies to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I feel sure that he will tell the House that the Customs and Excise Department will discuss this matter with the industry and will remedy the anomalies wherever possible. The furniture industry has had a very long history, and, in particular, a very long history at Wycombe, where furniture making has been established for a long time. This industry is made up of a very large number of small firms, many of which employ only 10, or even fewer, men. Because of that, there is a much more personal relationship between these people and the job they are doing. There is the love of craftsmanship which one often finds associated with men who work with wood. Furniture is not just an ordinary consumer item, but is much more than that. Furniture is something which you do not buy many times in a lifetime, but probably once, or at the most twice. It conditions and often influences our tastes, and it is an essential part of the background of any happy home life. For that reason, if for no other, this industry is not one best suited to bear a tax of this kind, however mildly administered. However beneficial may be other aspects of the scheme there must be some bad effects. The House has listened to me with careful attention. I have attempted to avoid controversy and not to fall into errors against the rules and regulations of the House. I hope that I have, nevertheless, made it clear that although I welcome the D Scheme as a step in the right direction, giving greater flexibility and freedom of design, which should result in the production of better furniture than we have had before, I dislike this tax intensely. I hope that as soon as possible, and certainly after we have had some months' practical experience of the working of the scheme, it will be found possible to reconsider the matter, do away with the tax, and free the furniture industry completely.
