gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making a start at a speech in this Committee today, I crave the indulgence of right hon. and hon. Members for any errors which I may commit. I am sure that most people, when they come here, are sufficiently vain to feel some satisfaction, but, in my case, I definitely have a shadow on my arrival, because it was due to the death of a personal friend. Sir James Henderson-Stewart served the constituency of Fife, East for twenty-eight years and I know how much he is missed in the constituency. I have also come to know, since I have been a Member of the House, how much he was held in esteem by hon. Members on both sides. I am lucky to represent a constituency which has both agriculture and a seat of learning—the town of St. Andrew's, with the oldest university in Scotland, and therefore I find it fortunate to be able to take part in this important debate. Because I am a practising farmer in my constituency, and because I, as a partner in a farming enterprise, am a recipient of some of the subsidies, no doubt it would be right for me to declare my interest. I believe that we should certainly look at these long-term projects, but I do not think that it would be right for me today  to enter into such a controversy. But I would like particularly to mention one or two matters in connection with beef and lamb, in which I am interested. First, I think that, in the Price Review negotiations that are taking place now, provision should be made to see that it is not possible for livestock which has been through an auction ring to go back on another occasion. This is bound to have a depressing effect on the market and, as the deficiency payment is calculated on an average, I do not believe that it should be allowed to happen. I believe that the farming community would be with my right hon. Friend if he was to propose such a course. Then, I think that we should try to make this guarantee system a little more flexible. I suggest that it should be possible for an alteration to be made in grading standards during the course of a fatstock year. After all, the present standard is a minimum of 54 per cent. The recent Smithfield Show was won by an animal graded at 62 per cent. which was judged to be the kind of better beast wanted. The average reached after the first grade was 57 to 58 per cent. During the last year, when too many cattle were coming on to the market, it might have been possible to raise the percentage from 54 to 56 per cent. A brake could have been put on the number of cattle coming forward and savings could have been made. I know that it is easy to have hindsight, but I doubt whether it was wise to put on the whole of the 10s. increase in one fell swoop last year. I understand from the Report of the Estimates Committee that it was done to stimulate production in 1962–63, in which case surely the increase could have been put on gradually or put on halfway through the fatstock year. There is no doubt that the high rate of subsidy attracts cattle on to the market, and we should face up to the fact that the farmer is just as well off, if not better off, if he receives £5 a cwt. from the auctioneers and £3 from the Government, on Which he pays no commission. Human nature being what it is, this high rate of subsidy encourages too many cattle on to the market. In addition, we should face up to the fact that consumption of beef has fallen since pre-war days by about 7 lb. per   head. If we are to look after the beef livestock farmers, we must stimulate that demand. Another factor to be borne in mind is that about 20 per cent. of all money spent on food is spent on pre-packed and ready-to-eat food which needs the minimum of cooking by the housewives. Therefore, it is in the interest of the beef producers to try to stimulate demand. I think that the extra 10s. which they get has aggravated the Irish immigration problem. In this case, as far as I am concerned, I would favour black immigrants. This has put up the cost of store cattle, adding to the capital which the feeding farmer has invested, and, therefore, I am doubtful whether it has been in the interests of the farming community as a whole. Then there is the question of lambs. In a year of plenty, why not reduce the maximum weight on which a subsidy is payable? We know that the average weight of New Zealand lambs is between 29 lb. and 35 lb. A period of high subsidy means that the farmer gets a bigger return from the subsidy than from the auction prices, and he tends to keep his lambs to a greater weight, putting more meat, on to the market, and again aggravating the situation. Some flexibility might be given by a new effort to reduce the maximum weight of about 55 lb. in this country—compared with about 35 lb. in New Zealand—to 40 lb. to 50 lb. That is producing the type of mutton which, in many cases, is not of the best quality, or exactly what is wanted. I draw attention to an article in the Pastoral Review, an Australian magazine which, in its ""United Kingdom Meat Notes"", on 18th August, 1961, drew attention to the importance of packaging and self-service and said: This business of self-service in Great Britain has wider implications…Already, New Zealand meat exporters are examining and even practising pre-packing at source. and it is estimated that this year they will produce about 1 million lambs in this way. The system has two main advantages: It provides big economies in freightage and it facilitates the disposal of cuts not in demand in U.K. to other sources. In a recent contract, for example, it was reported that from lamb carcases the legs came to the U.K., the loins went to U.S.A., the shoulders to Canada, the breasts to Ghana and the shanks to Honolulu. There may be scope for that kind of outlet for some of the cuts which we do  not want, if we so organise ourselves. At the same time, we should realise what a great competitor against lamb is the broiler chicken which, I gather, is now being sold in a quantity equivalent to about 8 million lamb carcases per annum. Unless we organise ourselves on these lines, we will not be doing the best far agriculture. Having made those few suggestions, which, I hope, may be of some use to the Committee, I return to the main item, which is this very large bill. It is its magnitude which stresses its utmost necessity. Had the system not been available, livestock farmers would have been ruined by last summer's prices. That is why I say that the magnitude of the bill underlines its need. My right hon. Friend stressed the weather aspect of this problem. I ask hon. Members to think what it must be like, on a night like this, to be a hill shepherd on the side of a hill with a lambing flock. We have a bounden duty, particularly in a world which is now very much working a five-day week, to safeguard the standard of living and interests and livelihood of those who give unsparing attention to livestock on our farms year in and year out. In Scotland, one person in six lives on a farm and the interest of the agricultural community is paramount. The economy of Scotland is bound up with farming, and I therefore welcome the Government's assurance that the guarantee system will continue.
