gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I must ask the indulgence of the House as this is the first time that I have had the honour to address it. I feel that I am very fortunate to be allowed to speak on a subject which I think is so very vital, which I have so much at heart and with which I have been closely connected for a great part of my life. Not that I consider defence in its broad aspect to be in any way a specialist subject. The world is becoming smaller today. The speed of modern weapons and transport is every day becoming greater, and today defence is and must be everybody's business. The area of world defence that we are considering is perhaps like a gigantic draughts board, which is spread before us and upon which all the world appears. But just as in realms of high strategy the whole conception is becoming simpler, I am quite certain that in the tactical handling of weapons and formations, defence is becoming a very professional business. Therefore, I am certain that it is a snare and a delusion to judge the fighting value of any defence force from the number of bodies that there are in uniform or even the number that there are in the reserve or the amount of money we may spend upon it. One must judge by different standards. In a maiden speech I do not want to be controversial. I do not think that defence should be controversial or in any way a party matter. It is essentially a national subject if ever there was one. But if I stray a little from the strict non-controversial paths, it is because I believe sincerely that no one who really follows our defence forces and their organisation today can be at all happy that we are really getting full value in terms of trained formations for the amount of money we are spending. I should like in the short time in which I propose to address the House to touch on three points. First, the purpose of our Defence Forces as set out in the White Paper; then a word about their character and make-up; and then just a word about their spirit and morale, a subject which I have not heard mentioned very much today, but which is an essential part of the strength and efficiency of any such forces the whole world over. On both sides of the House we would agree that the most disastrous thing that could happen to Britain or, indeed, to our civilisation would be another world war. Therefore, I think that the Minister of Defence is our most important Minister. If we really believe that that would be the greatest disaster we could suffer, tour Defence Forces and our defence system should have the highest priority. As regards the purpose of our defence as set out in the White Paper, I feel that quite a number of people seem to imagine today that their purpose in the event of another world war is that we and our Allies in Western Europe and in America should emerge from the ashes of the conflagration and be able to say that we have been victorious. That attitude I believe to be a terrible mistake. Our whole attitude towards defence should be that the war of the future must never be allowed to start. I do not find that dynamic approach in the White Paper, and certainly if I am mistaken and it is there, that dynamic approach has not permeated into our Armed Forces. If the price of freedom is eternal vigilance, I am certain that the price of peace in this unsettled world is eternal vigilance and then something even more, for which we have to work very hard indeed. The Brussels Treaty and the Atlantic Pact  have been stepping stones towards our purpose of world peace, but Britain has to take the lead, even in the organisation and planning of European defence, to see that we put across to our Allies the essential idea that defence in these days is not merely a question of plugging holes in a defence line, whether in Europe or anywhere else. It is a dynamic idea that all our planning must be directed to the final purpose that there must not be another war. It must not be allowed to start. I believe that it is because that supreme purpose for our defence planning over the last three years has not been realised that our rather expensive Defence Force does not really know which way it is going. I found myself in very great agreement with the Prime Minister when, on the first day of this Parliament, he said that what really mattered was not the value of this or that particular weapon, but the will to peace. I am certain that that is fundamentally true. If we cast our minds back to the end of the war when London was deluged with flying bombs, we shall understand how difficult it would have been for a British Government not to use any weapon, however terrible, which it knew would stop the flying bomb menace within a very short time. The important thing is to get the will to peace. All the great nations can approach the will to peace in two different ways. They can do so because they really desire peace and they think it abhorrent that in these civilised times any nation should resort to war. I think that is the United Nations idea which we envisaged five years ago and of which we have fallen rather short today. There is another will to peace, on the part of a nation which considers that it is expedient not to go to war. I admit that that ideal is second best but we must cling on to it if we can. Any Defence Force which we create must not only seem good to us but it must seem good and up to its job to the whole world, friends and foes alike. In other words, we have to put a great deal more into our defence shop window than we have done in the past if we are to prevent the war of the future from ever starting. The next war may also start from some smouldering disturbance, possibly in some out-of-the-way part of the world, which goes untended and then gets fanned   into a big flame which is beyond our control. The measuring rod of our British defence force must be to deal with any situation which may arise in the future. We must see that it is highly mobile, highly efficient, and that a large proportion of it is in a high state of readiness. Otherwise it is a waste of money. In regard to the character and makeup of our Defence Force, the Government mentioned in the White Paper cooperation and consultation with the Commonwealth. The co-operation we have achieved with the Commonwealth at the moment is a poor and anæmic thing to my way of thinking; in fact, we have not anything like such strong co-operation in our Armed Forces with the Commonwealth and Empire as we have with Western Europe. That is wrong, and I should like to see a Commonwealth defence secretariat set up in London as early as possible and our great Dominions bearing a much greater share of the manpower and expense of our Empire Defence Force than they are doing at the present time. I want to see the training co-ordinated. At the end of the war we thought nothing of moving two or three divisions by air over such unpleasant country as the jungles of Burma. It is a poor thing that today we cannot send out our Expeditionary Force, however small, from this country to meet the forces of New Zealand and Australia in the Middle East to carry out training together. Also if a litle rumpus starts in Malaya, I should like to see an Airborne Division from New Zealand and Australia on the scene within a week. I am certain that the kind of disturbance which has proved so difficult to control could have been dealt with if it had been tackled immediately, whereas by delaying two or three months and then sending out a brigade from home we have found that in the meantime the little rumpus has grown into something beyond our control. I would remind the House, as has been done before, that a big vacuum has been created today in our Commonwealth defence by the loss of our magnificent Indian army from our Empire Defence Force. It has not only disappeared from the credit side but it has rather gone over to the debit side owing to the most unfortunate situation over Kashmir.  Although I know that on paper within the last few days the situation seems to have improved, the state of tension which exists over Kashmir ought to be watched. If I may say so without being controversial, Britain had a moral responsibility to settle the fate of Hyderabad and Kashmir before we left that country and no one but Britain could do it. And. just as we had that moral responsibility then, we have a strong moral responsibility today to see that the tension which exists over Kashmir does not result in one of those conflagrations which arise because it is nobody's business, and which might possibly lead the world into another war. To come nearer home, I should like to refer to the problem of the Regulars and the National Service men. Every year this problem comes up in the Government Defence statement and every year we admit that it is becoming worse and that there is no solution for it. To my mind, conscription is not the real answer to our modern defence problems, yet I am certain that in the present position of our Armed Forces we could not possibly abolish conscription by a stroke of the pen. We have to face realities, and I say that any one who advocates the abolition of conscription, as many people do, and a lot of people did during the election, is supremely irresponsible and unwilling to deal with the problem which faces this country today. The problem of the diminishing strength of our Regular Forces is nothing less than a straightforward business proposition. The right type of young man—we do not want any other than the right type if we regard security as highly as we should—will not become a professional gipsy— for that is what he does become if he joins any one of our Regular Services today—and be carted around the world, separated continually from his wife and family, unless the pay, conditions and terms of service are adequate and attractive. The United States were faced with exactly the same problem two years ago but were in a different position from us and solved the problem within 12 months by increasing the pay and improving the conditions. The Government should come right out into the open on this straightforward business proposition of the Regular Forces and put quite plainly   into the White Paper something like this: that in view of the difficulties of our economic situation today we are unable to offer the Regular Forces wages and conditions of service which will attract the men in the right numbers and that, therefore, we must continue to place reliance on the National Service men. It would be particularly wrong if we made. as I have heard suggested, full employment an excuse for not giving the nation security. It should not be made an excuse for that any more than it should be made an excuse for not giving the people houses. We want security and full employment, and houses and full employment also. If we were to place security at its proper value, I am sure that that is what we should have. I should like to make one point on the important question of the spirit and morale of our Armed Forces, which I have not heard mentioned here today, but which is of absolute fundamental importance, because it is upon the contentment and morale and spirit of the men that the efficiency of any force must ultimately depend. I urge the Minister of Defence to restore the status of the officer. Any junior officer would tell him what I mean. It is not just a question of pay. It is an awkward thing to play with men's souls. The junior officer feels he has great responsibilities over the lives of other people and particularly great responsibilities over money and his status has been very much lowered from what it was a few months ago. There are these continual cuts in his allowances, in his travelling and this and that, and he is made to feel, rightly or wrongly, that he is not of such great importance as he ought to be. The more democratic our Forces become, the more important it is that the status of the officer should be very high. On the subject of the morale of the ordinary soldier, sailor and airman, I suggest that if we can make the ordinary soldier or airman who may be, perhaps, languishing in a swampy jungle in Malaya feel that he really matters, we shall have done an important thing. It is difficult, perhaps, to make him believe in fair shares for all, or that all men are equal, but I suggest we can make him feel that all men are equally important  and that whatever corner of the world he happens to be in he is doing a top priority job and that in this year of grace, 1950, it is still a fine thing to be British. If we can give the man in the ranks, whether a volunteer or a conscript, the feeling that he really matters, we shall have started to give the people of this country the Defence Force they deserve.
