gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a great privilege to take part in this debate. As a former sailor, I hope that the House will give a fair wind on this maiden voyage and a special measure of sympathy for being called immediately after the two Front Bench speeches to which we have just listened. I do not intend to lie entirely outside this engagement, and if I come under fire I shall not expect to be treated as a noncombatant. I have the honour to represent Chelsea, and not the least alarming factor in my present situation is that so many right hon. and hon. Members—and, above all, until very recently, Mr. Speaker himself—are numbered among my constituents. That, of course, is a very great source of pride to me, but it is also a matter of some embarrassment that I am speaking to so many of my own constituents instead of, as is sometimes usual on these occasions, to the local Press. There is much I should like to say about Chelsea, but we are debating defence and I will, therefore, come straight to my first point. I should like to begin by referring very briefly to something which my right hon. Friend the Minister of Defence also mentioned in his speech—the human factor, and I think that on this point Chelsea is a very good place to jump off from. The Chelsea Pensioners are familiar to hon. Members and I want to refer briefly to the pension rates of those who are still living on the old rates. I make no complaint about Service pay and pensions as they are as of today. In fact, I think that the Services owe a very great debt, and so does this House, to the Ministers concerned who have raised pay and pensions to their present level. I am particularly glad, in this connection, to see the reference in the White Paper to the automatic biennial review which will take account of earnings in civilian life. However, there is one point on which the House is entitled to   ask the Minister to take another and a kind look, and that is at the situation of these older pensioners, men who have retired perhaps many years ago and whose rates of pension have virtually not moved up, so far as I know. I may be mistaken on this, however. I also hope my right hon. Friend will look at the situation of the Service widows. I am sure that all would agree that the Services today offer a really splendid career. My own son began a Service career three months ago, and I am very glad that he has done so. Today is in every way a good time to enter the Services, but there is still uncertainty in many minds, especially in parents' and schoolmasters' minds, about what is to happen when a normal Service career ends at some time in middle-age, which is earlier than it would be in most professions and in the Civil Service. I think that this question of moving pensions up to some extent, and not letting them remain locked at the rates in force at the moment of retirement, is a factor which we should consider not only as a matter of human justice, but as a matter affecting recruiting as well. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will look at this matter with great sympathy, especially for widows. I am sure that he is aware that the only exceptions to the pensions being locked at the rates in force at the moment of retirement are field marshals, admirals of the fleet, and marshals of the Royal Air Force. They never retire, but go on half-pay and move up in pay with the Services. One other aspect on the human side is the question of morale. I think my right hon. Friend made reference to that and I was very glad to hear it. I think that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Belper (Mr. G. Brown) also referred to it, and I am sure the whole House would agree that morale in the Services today is very high indeed. I can speak with certainty about my own old profession, the Royal Navy. There is no doubt that morale is very high indeed in that Service. Pay and conditions have been transformed in the last few years, and I am sure, as I have said, that the Services are very grateful for that and appreciate it. Yet pay and conditions are not the only things which make men tick, at  any rate in the Services. They want something more than what one might call an ""early morning cup of tea"". We should remember two things: first, that officers and men need to feel the certainty that the country is behind them; and, secondly, they need to have a clear faith in a clearly-understood mission. With some feeling from my own experience at the receiving end, I should like to suggest that we here have a part to play in this. We have an opportunity in this debate to send forth a message of confidence and encouragement to the officers and men in the Services, to show them that the country and this House, whatever different views we may have on other aspects of defence, are behind them. I should like now to turn briefly to a few observations on one or two broader aspects of defence policy. I will not deal with the latter part of the speech of the right hon. Member for Belper, but there are one or two things which can be said without fear of getting involved in controversy which, unfortunately, in my present situation I must try to avoid. I cannot recall a time when it was more difficult to form a confident judgment about the central issues of defence policy and strategy, and so on, than it is in the sort of Dan Dare age in which we are now living. There are several reasons for this. Only nine or ten years ago it was fairly easy, inside or outside the Services, to think intelligently on the great issues of defence. It is much more difficult today. For one thing, we probably suffer from a lack of information about major problems in our defence system, which cannot be disclosed. However, this lack of information is, none the less, a handicap when we try to think intelligently and without party feeling on these great issues. Subject to security, I hope that my right hon. Friend will always do his best to keep the House really well informed. Another factor is that the pace of progress today is far greater, and getting greater every year, than it has ever been. There is no doubt that research and development and the great advances made in weapons and equipment introduce many unpredictable factors. Finally, there is the astronomical rise in the cost of modern equipment. Quality   goes up and quantity goes down for every £1 million spent. There is one example of this which it may be helpful to refer to, as it can be applied to many other aspects of defence production. That is ship design. I imagine that at a time like this the Ministry of Defence and the Board of Admiralty have been considering the fleet which we will require, the next generation of ships which, I suppose, will be completed at the end of the 1960s or early 1970s and would, therefore, be operational during the 1970s and the 1980s and even the early 1990s. That is a very long time ahead, not only in years, but still more in terms of scientific progress. Let us take the instance of the replacement of an aircraft carrier. I do not know whether we are to replace our aircraft carriers, but I sincerely hope that we are. I suppose that from the moment when the first sketch design is put on the back of the First Sea Lord's envelope, anything from seven to ten years will elapse before such a ship can be completed. I suppose that it would cost about £1,500 to £2,000 a ton to build. When one starts designing a great vessel like that, a great slice of the national industrial effort which is to cost £50 million or £60 million, one is immediately faced with many imponderables and unpredictable factors. One example is the weapons. Are guns as we know them to be totally obsolete in ten years? Perhaps, Will aircraft in the 1970s and 1980s take off horizontally, or vertically, which would make quite a difference when one is designing an aircraft carrier? Is propulsion to be much as it is now, or will it be nuclear? Those are all difficult factors involving a good deal of guess work and very nice judgment. It is not easy to design a great ship like that and stop half way so that it can operate different aircraft or have different propulsion. On the other hand, if the judgment of the designers today is faulty and we spend £50 million. £60 million, £70 million or £80 million on one ship which, in 1968, is obsolete, or nearly obsolete, what would this House have to say? But if we funk the issue and do nothing until the imponderables resolve themselves, we shall not have a ship. I mention those as practical and not theoretical problems, because I think that the right hon. Member for Belper was a little hard on the Government when he accused them of being slow in some ways and making mistakes in others. Hindsight is not a valid basis for criticism in there important and difficult matters. If we do not spend the money, we do not get the weapons and if we spend the money, we have, perhaps, a 25 per cent. chance of making some big mistake. Those are all matters which we should consider when studying defence. I have no doubt that if we had known at the time what we know today we might have acted differently in some matters. But that is not the point and I should like to know just where the right hon. Gentleman's judgment would have differed from that of the Government if he had had available the information, and only the information, which was available at the time when decisions had to be made. I cannot help wondering. Another change which has been mentioned is, strategically speaking, the shrinking in our overseas bases, a process which has already gone a long way and which looks like going a little further. That is why I am so glad that there are several references in the White Paper to the importance of mobility. If we can get our forces on a basis of true mobility and flexibility we shall have gone a long way to overcoming the serious strategic effect of the loss of bases which, for one reason or another, we have had to give up. On the subject of mobility, I hope that my right hon. Friend will give serious thought to a matter which merits consideration, the reinstitution in peace-time of at least an embryo fleet train. I do not want to make more than a brief speech. There is much else which I should like to say, but I will spare the House. My last point, which is of great importance, is the interdependence between defence policy and foreign policy. In the foreign affairs debate the other day, I was struck by the fact that rather more than half the speeches from both sides and both Front Benches dealt with defence policy rather more than with foreign affairs in isolation. I want to quote something recently said in another place, which, I think,   should be borne in mind when we debate foreign affairs or defence policy: … one cannot have a foreign policy at all unless it has the backing of … force. We should only reduce ourselves immediately to the status of a second-class nation, with no power for good or ill.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, House of Lords, 10th February, 1960; Vol. 220, c. 1154.] I emphasise those last words, ""No power for good or ill"" I add to that my own experience, which is rather unusual in that I have so frequently worked on allied staffs—on the Supreme War Council with the French at the beginning of the war, the Combined Chiefs of Staff, in Washington, in 1945, the National War College of the United States, as well as our own Imperial Defence College—in all of which we have been not only inter-Service, but international. I am sure that the importance of British influence in higher strategical thought cannot be over-emphasised. There must be many hon. Members of this House who have knowledge of allied councils, whether it be N.A.T.O. or with the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the war. Anyone who has had that experience will agree that British influence is quite invaluable, and usually out of all proportion to our share in the common effort. I am convinced that the House should give firm support to the Motion, and I hope that I am not being optimistic in expecting it to do so.
