gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make my maiden speech, I am filled with a profound sense of honour, excitement and humility. What man or woman can fail to feel a great sense of honour at speaking for the first time in this historic Chamber—the very mother of Parliaments, and a Parliament about which I am still learning to find my way, both politically and physically? I have been reoriented and guided on many occasions by kind hon. Members on both sides of the House. I have often thought back to the story of the schoolgirl who was asked by one of her mistresses "" Where are elephants found? "" Shrewd and logical, as all girls are, she replied "" Elephants are large and intelligent animals, and as such are rarely if ever lost "". It is also a great honour to have taken over the mantle of Winchester from Rear-Admiral Morgan-Giles, whose name you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, have often called with such dignity and, if I may say so, Mr. Speaker has also called with a certain   Welsh melody. In echo, I am sorry that I am able to give only the English version. In talking to hon. Members from all sides of the House, I am convinced that the read-admiral was loved. He really was much loved by this House. I was given dramatic proof of that the other night when, sitting in the Strangers' Gallery next to him, I noticed the nods, winks and waves coming from all parts of the Floor, like salutes to a gallant and trusted comrade. He was also much loved in Winchester, and will be sadly missed. Perhaps I can best illustrate this by quoting what I was told by a constituent just before the general election, who said to me "" John, I cannot imagine Winchester without the admiral. It will be like losing the cathedral."" He has always been a good friend and adviser to me, and I hope that with God's help I shall be able to wear the mantle of Winchester with half the distinction of Admiral Morgan-Giles. It goes without saying that I feel it to be the greatest honour and privilege of my life to be chosen to represent the people of Winchester. It is the ancient Saxon capital of Wessex and of England, and the place where for at least 13 centuries people have been aware of the presence of God. The present cathedral, the third to stand on the site, is 900 years of age. It celebrated its anniversary only last weekend. It is one of the most ancient and majestic cathedrals in the world, with the longest nave in Christendom. It is not only a beautiful standing monument of stone but the focal point of today's entire community in Winchester. Winchester is a major centre of the Church, education, law and local government. Twenty per cent. of us are involved in agriculture. We have many small businesses, many people are self-employed, there are many light industries and some divisions of major international companies. There are many people serving in the Armed Forces and many retired people living on fixed incomes who, like our housewives, will be watching keenly to see whether the Government's monetary policies are effective in curbing inflation. Despite the beauty of Winchester, we have in the constituency all the normal problems of today's life. We have unemployment but are lucky in that tourism  tends to absorb many of the unskilled. We have redevelopment problems and a major housing problem in north Andover, where poorly-built London overspill housing is breaking down and causing tremendous suffering to the occupants. However, the people of Winchester look to the Government with hope and confidence that a new dawn of freedom and enterprise is breaking over our country. I thank you, sincerely, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to speak in a Back Benchers' debate, and I speak with a due sense of humility. Speaking in this House that both gives and expects such tremendously high standards of knowledge, political skill and eloquence makes me feel humble, particularly when I know that on many issues I shall be fighting tooth and nail with talented and hardworking right hon. and hon. Members opposite. I take some small comfort in the fact that we are all fellow countrymen, British at least. On some points we may even agree. I also feel humble in approaching a judgment on the dreadful, crucial and most difficult subject of the death penalty. It is one that arouses strong feelings and deep emotions on all sides, and feelings for which I have great sympathy and understanding. We are talking about taking life in cold blood. I have no individual divine knowledge on the subject. My instinct, however, is that if execution is to be used either for punishment or revenge, I am against the death penalty. If, on the other hand, it is to be a deterrent, I am for it. I feel that it is the Government's prime duty to protect the citizens of this country from both external and internal attack. If the Government fail in their duty, people will begin to take the law into their own hands and civilisation will have taken a major step backwards. In 1965 an experiment began to determine whether the withdrawal of the death penalty could be achieved without putting the lives of our people at risk unnecessarily. Fourteen years have passed and events now suggest that the death penalty should be reinstated as a deterrent. The key question is that of deterrence. I agree that the statistics are at best inconclusive, but there is evidence in this country of an enormous groundswell of public opinion indicating that the majority feel that the death penalty is a deterrent. I   also believe very strongly that it is a deterrent. Many people will argue that the death penalty will not deter fanatics. I agree, but at least it will limit their activities. The most conclusive evidence was that stated in opening the debate by my hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Griffiths) when he compared the money paid to professional killers in those countries which had the death penalty and in those which did not. There was a considerable differential. That is a calculation based not on being caught but on being caught and killed, and it is conclusive evidence. It is also interesting to note the strong evidence that fear of certain death acts as a deterrent not only to individuals but to nations. Take the example of the super-Powers. The nuclear deterrent has given us 30 years of relative peace, despite enormous tensions and provocations. The right hon. Member for Birmingham, Small Heath (Mr. Howell) said that people had not discussed the moral issues. We should not be hypocritical in looking at this question. The majority of people in our society accept that the death penalty still exists on the statute book for treason. We accept abortion and we accept the taking of one's own life. Attempted suicide is no longer a criminal offence. We still demand that our Armed Forces take life and the soldier may kill his enemy when the man's only apparent crime is that he wears a different uniform. I am convinced that the death penalty is a deterrent to certain cases of killing and other crimes of violence. As our society already accepts the taking of life in certain circumstances, and the present experiment of abolition has proved inconclusive and has put innocent lives at risk, we should now reconsider the matter. Of course the Secretary of State is right when he says that the death penalty would be extremely difficult to operate. I accept that, but it is the function of leadership to overcome those difficulties. The British people are now crying out to their leaders for protection. If this House continues to ignore these cries, it will do so at great risk of ordinary people taking the law into their own hands. If that happens, this House will be acting neither in the interests nor according to the will of our people. I hope therefore that right hon. and hon. Members will not only search their own consciences on this matter but will do so in the light of today's appalling crime rates, in the light of our duty to protect our citizens' lives and the cries of the British people for an end to this period of abolition. Innocent lives are at stake not only from premeditated killings but from other crimes of violence. It falls to us to protect our citizens with positive action.
