gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to claim the indulgence of the House. I should like to make some comments on the working of the Bill as I see it affecting my constituency, which has an estimated working population of over 20,000 in a fairly concentrated industrial area. There are only eight banks in the constituency and I should like to mention what I think would be the consequences of the payment of wages by cheque, money order or postal order. First, if all workers are to be paid by cheque it is obvious that there will be delays at the bank, and it should be remembered that very often on Saturday mornings there will be, at the same time, people who will be wishing to pay in wages. In many cases, especially in my constituency, people have long distances to go to town where all the banks are concentrated in the shopping area. Many people would not wish to go into town, for various domestic reasons, and the banks certainly would not be to the convenience of the vast number of employees who work on Saturday mornings. We come back, therefore, to the question of cashing cheques in the local grocer's shop and the public house. There are a large number of public houses in my constituency. To enable these cheques to be cashed, a small businessman would have to draw additional sums of money during the  week, and so also would the publican. They would thus lay themselves open to being knocked on the head and robbed, and that is one of the very things which the Bill is designed to prevent. I do not think that these people should be placed in a situation in which they would have large sums of money in their possession and probably quite inadequate safe facilities. They would probably have to purchase safes and that would be an additional expense. Once this system is adopted we might well get a wave of robberies, and that is something which I certainly do not want to see. There would be a very large number of people who would be handling cheques for the first time. Many of them have never seen one and do not know how to pay it in to a bank or what it means. We might well get a period of considerable chaos and confusion. Many people dislike using the bank and paying bank charges. Many people regard a bank as a place where their money is taken away from them and consider it not to be in their interest to use a bank. I have heard that point of view expressed many times in the course of my career. A great deal of education is needed to overcome this prejudice among a number of people. I can quote the case of a lady in my constituency who was provided with some personal cheques on the Midland Bank. In a week she filled up some of them for various sums of money, none of which she possessed. She thought that whatever one wrote on a cheque one could draw. She thought she could draw whatever money she desired. I suggest, also, that we should be likely to have another type of person on the warpath, the man who would say, ""All right, I will cash your cheque if you give me 6d. or 1s. in the £."" He would soon start a little racket which would lead to abuses and heaven knows what else. I also believe that a great many people would not wish to disclose their wages, which the encashment of a cheque would be bound to do. For example, if the husband were sick the wife would have to go down the road to cash the cheque and, therefore, would be bound to know the amount. During the course of the election campaign I found that very few wives had ever seen a pay-slip, never mind knowing what amount the husband drew. In some   cases where a man draws a ""sub"" of £5 or £10 the wife thinks that it is some additional payment from the previous week. This is one of the many points which we ought to bear in mind. As for sending money through the post, I cannot really believe that registered letters are likely to go astray. I say that they would be registered because I am convinced that any firm sending wages through the post must register the envelope, for its own security, if nothing else. The Bill states that payment can be made by postal order or money order. This means that we might well see a considerable crowding of some sub-post offices and main post offices, especially over the wekend. It is difficult enough to get new sub-post offices, as I know from the area where I live. If payment by money order or postal order is accepted I submit that we have a good case for more sub-post offices to be built. This particularly concerns my constituency, which has a vast rehousing plan and is rapidly building new estates. If we do not have these facilities, payment by postal order or money order will be farcical. We have heard from the Minister that payment through a bank account is being made by I.C.I. at their Wilton works. That is a step in the right direction and, clearly, its popularity is slowly increasing. If that practice were adopted by all major firms, it would give a great measure of security. As I see it, one of the reasons for the Bill is to reduce the amount of money in circulation drawn by cashiers at various times in the week, thereby reducing the number of hold-ups which occur throughout the country at fairly frequent intervals. In my constituency I have seen young girls of 15 or 16 years of age drawing money from the bank, with no escort and with no proper bags. It is not right that employers should put such people in that position. They may not have far to go, but it is easy to snatch a bag and run. I have also seen a man stuff over £500 into a small suitcase, with no escort and with many other people watching. Far too many firms are inclined to give the coinage breakdown in advance on the telephone and their rendezvous for  collecting money is at the same time every day of the week. Sometimes those who are drawing the money take the same route. In some cases there is an escort; in others there is not. Every firm can, and should, make adequate security arrangements when drawing wages. I am sure that many firms do so. Also, it is wrong that cashiers, who are not highly paid, and sometimes are extremely young, should be handed vast sums of money without adequate security. They should not be put in that position. Recently, I noticed that a distinguished ex-police officer is to start a firm in this country, similar to one in the United States, I understand, which, for a small consideration, will supply an armoured type car or vehicle for use when drawing large sums of money. That is a most commendable project which could well be adopted by our larger firms without very heavy overall cost. The payment of wages by cheque will not greatly reduce the administrative costs of big offices. My short business experience has convinced me that a lot of work is put into authorising and franking cheques which, inevitably, go through the hands of a large number of people, and in many of the big firms there are special franking machines as well. These are all expensive items of office equipment and, added to these, there is the cost of money orders and postal orders. Though I am a layman in these matters, I cannot think that the administrative costs of a large organisation will be much reduced by the Bill. This is a desirable Measure to bring our country into line with modern conditions, and it is right that more people should be encouraged to open banking accounts. However, there will be difficulties in the early months of the implementation of the Bill when it becomes an Act and, as it states, it is up to the employee to decide how he wishes to have his wages paid. In my constituency I think that things will probably remain very much as they are now, at least for some time to come. But as experience is gained, and in the light of improving security, generally speaking this is a Bill which will be for the good of the country in the years ahead.
