gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It falls to me to congratulate not one but several hon. Members on their maiden contributions. If I may, I shall begin with my hon. Friend the Member for Bromsgrove (Miss Kirkbride), who is not only my hon. Friend in the House but is genuinely a friend outside the House. I must say in all candour—I hope that it does not sound presumptuous from one new Member to another—that I have rarely heard a speech of such lucidity, eloquence and comprehensive scope. The fact that it was her first speech makes my task all the more daunting. I hope that the House will understand when I say that, although my hon. Friend is extremely fortunate to be the Member of Parliament for Bromsgrove, Bromsgrove is extremely fortunate to have her as its Member of Parliament. The hon. Member for Exeter (Mr. Bradshaw), who is sadly not in his place, made a similarly outstanding contribution. I confess that I have not made his acquaintance, but I hope that I shall do so in due course, because he spoke with great sincerity, passion and extreme clarity. Once again, that made my task much more difficult that it might otherwise have been. I look forward to hearing further contributions from him in the future. My hon. Friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton (Mr. Gibb) also made a superb speech. He has a tremendous grasp of economic affairs and long experience of accountancy, despite which he is in no sense a boring character. The hon. Member for Brent, North (Mr. Gardiner) spoke with great style and precision. I identified with one aspect of his speech in particular. He referred, albeit somewhat controversially from my point of view, to Edgware hospital. I have a particular reason to be grateful to Edgware hospital: I began my life there, with a little assistance from my mother, who is in the Gallery. I have sympathy with and respect for the cause of that hospital, so perhaps from time to time it will be the subject of non-partisan discussion and co-operation. My hon. Friend the Member for Epping Forest (Mrs. Laing) also made a splendid speech. All in all, it is extremely difficult to follow those hon. Members with anything remotely resembling a respectable contribution. I shall nevertheless endeavour as best I can to do so. I begin by paying tribute to my predecessor of almost 14 years' standing. George Walden represented the Buckingham parliamentary constituency diligently and effectively, and championed a wide range of important and worthy causes. Throughout that process, George was always intolerant of stuffiness, of pomposity and of the unthinking acceptance of conventional wisdom. It must therefore have come as a great disappointment to him when I was selected as his successor. He was truly a remarkable man, and remains so. It used to be said that it was dangerous for a Conservative Member to be seen by his party Whips with a book in his hand: to be seen reading it was fatal. During the time he served as Member of Parliament, George, with typical disregard for the sensibilities of the party managers, became a distinguished chairman of the Booker prize committee. One of the most memorable parliamentarians of modern times was Mr. Enoch Powell, who served in the House for well nigh 37 years. He once said: My mind climbs mountains without any vertigo. If that be true of Mr. Powell, it is assuredly also true of George Walden. He is a literary man who is blessed with a brilliant brain. He had an old-fashioned sense of public service, and he will be missed in this place. I know that the whole House will join me in wishing him well in his future endeavours. The Buckingham parliamentary constituency covers a predominantly rural area, stretching between the two main towns of Milton Keynes and Aylesbury. It comprises more than 100 villages, together with the former county town of Buckingham and the market town of Winslow. The largest of the numerous pretty villages is Haddenham, which is the largest village in the United Kingdom. The geography of the constituency is interesting and expansive alike. Its northernmost tip ends at the county boundary with Northamptonshire, just short of the Silverstone race track. The constituency spreads eastwards to the border with Bedfordshire, within sight of Whipsnade park zoo, and then moves southwards around both sides of Aylesbury to the Oxfordshire border around Thame. The most westerly point lies at Turweston, where it meets the border with Brackley. My constituency contains many tremendous and impressive attractions, not least of which is the landscape garden at Stowe, which, as right hon. and hon. Members will know, is home also to the distinguished and famous public school of that name. Waddesdon manor, Ascott house and Claydon house are notable features of the constituency, as is Mentmore Towers, which I can recommend to my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition should he want to avail himself of some decent rest and composure during the summer recess. The Buckingham constituency, although renowned for its grammar school, is also the home of the once independent university of Buckingham, of which my right hon. and noble Friend the Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven is chancellor. Given that my noble Friend's ideas revolutionised the political agenda not only of my party but of the Labour party, and arguably of the former Soviet empire, it gives me particular pleasure that the university most closely associated with those ideas should be sited in my constituency. In my view, my noble Friend is not only the finest British peacetime Prime Minister this century: she is also the world's greatest living statesman. I reflected on my noble Friend in preparing this maiden speech, in the context not merely of her chancellorship of Buckingham university but of the fact, of which I am immensely proud, that it was by her example and leadership that I came first to join the Conservative party and become actively involved in its affairs. As a teenager in the sixth form at comprehensive school in the Finchley constituency, I was struck by two phenomena—first, a feeling of absolute disgust at the desperate and pitiful state to which successive Governments of both colours, but particularly the depredations of the previous Labour Administration, had consigned my country. The second was the passionate and ingrained belief that my noble Friend had the vision and leadership to take this country out of the trough and  forward to more prosperous and harmonious times. I politely submit that on that occasion I might have been proved right. As a result of my noble Friend Baroness Thatcher's leadership, and during the tenure of my right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Major), dramatic accomplishments were set in place. We achieved record prosperity at home. We secured respect and acclaim abroad, and, above all and even more significant than those achievements, we rediscovered for ourselves that sense of self-belief, self-faith and conviction that we could go forward, which for so long in the post-war period seemed to have deserted us. Conservative Governments bequeathed the finest economic inheritance imaginable to the present Administration. I am sure that the Minister would be ready at least in part to acknowledge that some good was done during 18 years of Conservative government. We left the best conditions—low inflation, falling unemployment, cheaper mortgages, prosperous industry, growing competitiveness and a capacity at last to hold our heads high in the world. Also—I say this in no spirit of hostility or confrontation with the Government but to establish the record accurately—we left this country's finances in good shape. A certain myth is gaining ground about this, but the reality is that the public sector borrowing requirement has been halved as a proportion of gross domestic product in the past three years. Therefore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Prime Minister are fortunate to have come into office at this time, with a thriving free-enterprise, deregulated and competitive economy, the like of which we have not seen in this country certainly in my 34 years on this planet. What have the new Government done in the two months in which they have held office to sustain that or to add to it? I begin this appraisal of the Government's record on a generous note, because it is right to acknowledge that the two reductions in corporation tax—the cuts in the main rate and in the small companies rate—are extremely welcome. They are good for business. They will be widely appreciated, and they should be the subject of all-party approval in the House. Those measures would be doubly well received if Ministers had been prepared to acknowledge their failures, when in opposition, in resisting such measures, but I suspect that it is probably naive for a new Member to expect quite so much from Ministers. However, it would have been nice if they had been prepared to acknowledge that, throughout the 1980s and much of the 1990s, we were right about corporation tax and they were assuredly and manifestly wrong. Nevertheless, the Government have done well on that front, and they deserve praise for it. What has followed since, I regret to say, cannot be similarly applauded. We witnessed in Wednesday's Budget no fewer than 17 new taxes, the yield of which can be anticipated to be about £18 billion over the next three years. Even though it is normal to make non-controversial maiden speeches, those measures appear to constitute the most breathtaking act of betrayal visited on an electorate by an incoming Government in living memory. I say so on the basis not of what we argued, asserted or anticipated, but of what Labour   Members said in advance of the election. Just in case they have been afflicted by a temporary but convenient bout of amnesia, I welcome the opportunity to remind them. On 21 September 1996, the Prime Minister, then Leader of the Opposition, said that there would not be any requirement to raise taxes, and that he had no plans to do so. On 8 April this year, the Chancellor of the Exchequer said: There is no black hole for the Labour party because we have no public spending commitments that require extra taxes. This week, however, they have come forward with dramatic new impositions. What has changed? The bogus economic excuse for the increased taxation is the alleged black hole that the Chancellor has suddenly and with enormous convenience been able, in the post-election period, to identify, when, sadly, it escaped his eye before the campaign got under way. The genuine political motivation behind this week's massive hike in taxes is the insatiable appetite of Labour Governments—new, clearly, as well as old—to spend other people's money for them and supposedly on their behalf. At least two of the major taxes announced in the Budget directly contradict the pledge of no new additional taxation. Let me deal with at least some of the examples. Hon. Members have referred to the abolition of the tax credit on dividends. That is a deeply regressive measure, which the Government have taken for short-term political reasons. It will cause grave harm. It pulverises the pensioner. It risks the possibility that people with endowment mortgages at the end of the policy will not have the funds successfully to discharge their obligations. I should like to be able to say in the presence of the Secretary of State for Social Security, who was here earlier, that it almost—I use the word advisedly—beggars belief that she was able with such equanimity to support the Budget when one reflects upon the fact that her main responsibility is to protect and promote the interests of pensioners who will be damaged by the measure. The right hon. Lady is an extremely talented and ingenious politician, and I hope that it will not be taken in the wrong spirit when I say that she is practised in the art of defending the indefensible and that it comes as no special surprise to me to see that she has been willing to do that on this occasion. The second regressive measure is the action on mortgage interest tax relief, which will cost the average mortgage payer £10 a month. It contradicts what the Prime Minister said on 5 March 1996, when he criticised Conservatives for such measures. Moreover, the Chancellor's measure has been taken in wholly different and much less appropriate circumstances, because it is one thing to reduce relief when interest rates are low and falling, and quite another to reduce it when rates are higher and rising. I hope that Labour Members will reflect on that point. The final undesirable measure is one on which we were given advance notice before the election, and it is the imposition of the windfall tax, which will raise about £5.2 billion. It is an arbitrary and capricious tax. It is unfairly and poorly targeted and will be imposed upon a range of companies. It will affect pensioners and, more particularly, it will affect the utilities themselves, as Anglian Water has been ready to point out. That company expects to have to borrow to pay the windfall tax, and it expects that, as a result, its investment programme will suffer. It also anticipates the loss of a significant number of jobs. It is not credible for the Government to argue that the windfall tax will not have a damaging effect, because, however well intentioned, it will have negative consequences of which the House should take note. The common fashion is to talk about the way that Labour has changed over the past two years. It would certainly be churlish to deny that there have been substantial changes, but it is right to acknowledge that there are substantial similarities between, for example, the Wilson Government, who spoke of the white heat of technology, and the Blair Government, who talk lovingly about the joys of the information super-highway. I politely suggest that both, lacking a philosophical guide, an anchor on which to base their policies, ultimately resort to what they know, for it is what they know alone—taxing, borrowing, regulating, spending, interfering, mollycoddling; trying to take over the lives of ordinary citizens and make decisions on their behalf which Conservatives believe people can better make for themselves. I wish the Chancellor well in conducting economic policy on behalf of the country. He may prove to be a better Chancellor than some of us anticipate, but to date, given a choice between advancing the British competitive interest and appeasing the Labour vested interest, the right hon. Gentleman has rushed helter-skelter, with barely a pause for breath, in the direction of the latter. The former right hon. Member for Birmingham, Sparkbrook, now Lord Hattersley, wrote a telling article on 13 March 1995, if my memory serves me correctly, in The Guardian—where else? He said: Labour now has a clear choice. It can either be the party of higher taxation and proud of it; or the party of higher taxes which it is ashamed to describe, afraid to admit and incapable of calculating with any accuracy. Labour cannot be the low taxation party. Until I read that article, I never thought that the day would come on which I would agree with Lord Hattersley. To be fair, however, it must be acknowledged that, after he ceased to be a Labour Front Bencher, he blurted out the truth with admirable clarity. I suggest that he gave a telling description of the truth of Labour Governments once they have to apply decisions and to make choices among the options of tax, spend and borrow, and that that truth bodes ill for the United Kingdom. I hope that Ministers will reconsider their position, although I doubt they will. If they were to do so, the United Kingdom would benefit.
