gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As the hon. member has just said, there has been considerable clouding of the issue in this Debate. There is no disposition on the part of the supporters of the Prayer to raise any difficulty or any question with respect to the religious settlement set out in the Act which will always be associated with my right hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler). The issue raised on this Prayer is very short and very simple. It does not, as the hon. Member for Aberavon (Mr. Cove) suggested, raise any question as to religious instruction or syllabus. It merely raises the question of whether, in the national schools of this country, one class of man alone shall be disqualified from acting as teachers and that they shall be disqualified for no other and no better reason than  that they belong to a calling which for more than half our history was alone responsible for the education of the poorer classes. Therefore I invite attention to the fact that that, and that alone, is the issue raised. One matter has been touched upon which I should be very grateful if the Minister, when she replies to the Debate, would deal with. As I understand it, one of her many anxieties is centred round the question whether she will be able to provide enough teachers to implement, fully and adequately, the Act of 1944. One would appreciate it if she would assure the House that even with clerical teachers banned she is in a position, without any difficulty, to supply an adequate number of teachers. If she is not and this historic Measure is to be held up through lack of teachers it seems rather strange that she is going to deprive herself of a source of trained teachers. The exclusion in the Regulation covers not only Clerks in Holy Orders but regular ministers of other denominations. I do not know if the right hon. Lady will enlighten the House on the precise distinction between regular and irregular ministers. At any rate, the fact is that a Clerk in Holy Orders who desires to make himself employable in the national schools has only, as the Regulation now stands, to commit an act of such gross impropriety as to cause himself to be unfrocked to become immediately a suitable person to be employed in the national schools—a provision which would have enabled a certain notorious character formerly in Holy Orders, who in later life resided in a barrel in Blackpool, to become employable as a teacher in the schools.—[Mr. EDE: ""No.""]—The prohibition is precise—Clerks in Holy Orders. If he is unfrocked he ceases to be a Clerk in Holy Orders. Therefore, as I see it, a Clerk in Holy Orders who has never given cause for any trouble is debarred, whereas the occasional black sheep is given the freedom to be employed in the schools. It does appear that this legislative discrimination against one and only one class in the community is contrary to the spirit of broad-minded toleration which is expressed in Section 30 of the Act itself. It is in the light of that consideration that I would ask the right hon. Lady to consider whether she really feels that this   discrimination, for which, as has been pointed out, she herself is not responsible, is really to be maintained. The hon. Member for Aberavon asked what the supporters of the Prayer really wanted. May I, as one of them, answer that in one sentence. What we ask is this: that the clergyman, the Clerk in Holy Orders, the minister of a regular denomination should be placed neither in a better nor a worse position than anybody else; but that those responsible bodies that have the duty of selecting teachers for our schools should be free, if they wish, to employ such a person equally with anybody else. I do not think that to support this Prayer it is necessary to go as far as the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Astor) went, and to suggest that clergymen make the best teachers. All that it is necessary to do is to submit to the House that they have the right to be considered jointly with other people for employment in our national schools. May I make, with great respect, an appeal to the right hon. Lady and to the House. Hon. Members are only too well aware that in these days the darkness of pagan materialism is to be found all over the world—[Interruption.]—and hon. Members opposite are themselves often very eloquent in their denunciation of it. It is a fact that the light of Christian culture, which is of the very heart of European civilisation, has been put out in many countries. Against that background, would it not be a very proper and fitting thing for this House to-night to make it abundantly and blindingly clear that it will neither permit nor tolerate any discrimination or prejudice against those faiths and freedoms which have guided for centuries the footsteps of our race?
