gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful that I have caught your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and I ask the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech. I have sought and been given much advice on how to tackle this problem. The consensus of opinion seems to be that I should be non-controversial and as short as possible. On this occasion I shall try to conform to convention. Many right hon. and hon. Members will remember my predecessor, Mr. Bernard Taylor, C.B.E., who was a Member of the House for 25 years. It is no surprise to me to find that Bernard was as well loved and respected here in the House as he is in the constituency of Mansfield. For the benefit of his many friends on both sides of the House, it is with great pleasure that I am able to announce that a special council meeting of the borough of Mansfield is being convened to ask Bernard if he would wish to become a freeman of the Borough of Mansfield. I do not think that even Robin Hood managed this great honour—not legally, anyway. It is all too obvious to me, having been introduced to hon. Members on both sides, that I am to be judged against the record of my predecessor. I can only hope to earn the rescpect and admiration of the House which he so rightly enjoyed. I have the honour to represent Mansfield. Mansfield is the regional centre of the West Nottinghamshire group of towns. Though its original nucleus is ancient, much early growth was stimulated by the domestic hosiery industry. The opening of two collieries soon after the turn of the century, however, started Mansfield in the world of industry. This industry has grown to such proportions in the area that Mansfield is now referred to as the capital city of coal—though some of my colleagues may well disagree about that. Although it has no collieries within its own boundaries, 30 per cent. of Mansfield's resident male population are employed in mining, and, of course, when one includes the subsidiaries as well, the proportion is a great deal more than that. The town offers a predominance of female employment in manufacturing, largely through the dominance of metal goods and textiles. Mansfield is a major shopping centre for a catchment area of 150,000 persons. Its spending power per head of population is way above the average for England and Wales. The reasons for this happy situation are that the main economic force for the area is coal mining, plus the full employment of its female working population. We in Mansfield are anxious that this trend shall continue. There is no immediate danger of the mining industry in this area suffering the fate which has come upon it in come unfortunate areas represented by certain of my hon. Friends. At present, in fact, the East Midlands coalfield is in the act of trying—I emphasise that word—to expand. With Mansfield and its surroundings so economically dependent on coal mining, one can understand the anxiety expressed at times by its local leaders. The policy of local government is to plan for the future expansion and prosperity of the town. Planning policy for the area has been to encourage alternative male employment, though this has not met with a great deal of success because of shortage of labour and, of course, Board of Trade policy. The major economic transition within the area from coal mining, though not yet imminent, will demand considerable forward planning. I believe that this is the fourth maiden speech within a few days to come from a predominantly mining area. My hon. Friend the Member for Consett (Mr. David Watkins), who so graphically described his first visit down a mine, much to my discomfort, sat on these back benches having a quiet little cough, and my hon. Friend the Member for Ashfield (Mr. Marquand), my neighbouring constituency, pinpointed some of the problems of the mining industry today—low wages, shortage of manpower and, above all, a complete lack of confidence in the industry due, in the main, to no comprehensive fuel policy. The position is now so serious that, if present trends continue, the figure given in the National Plan of 170 million to 180 million tons for 1970–71 may be as low as 125 million tons. I thank my hon. Friends the Members for Consett and for Ashfield for pinpointing these problems. They are both non-miners, and I fully appreciate the problems which they have in representing a mining area. Yesterday, my hon. Friend the Member for Midlothian (Mr. Eadie) made his maiden speech, and I fully endorse everything he said about the mining industry. I come now to the subject of today's debate, the Second Reading of the Reserve Forces Bill. Having read the Bill and the report of the debate on the Territorial Army in the OFFICIAL REPORT of 16th December last, I wish to make one or two observations. Hon. Members have put forward certain qualifications to justify their taking part in a debate on this subject, so, first things first, I must declare my own interest. I was a Regular soldier for six years in the Brigade of Guards, so now all the guardsmen are not to be found on the opposite side of the House. I have been a Class B Reservist and a Territorial for another eight years. I cannot claim any immediate recognition of fame. I cannot claim that I worked my way through the ranks from private soldier to become the C.O., as the mover of the Amendment in that earlier debate did. Somehow. I got stuck at a certain level, lance-corporal. This happened to be my last year as a member of the Territorial Army, and, I may add, there was a considerable amount of blackmail over that. But hon. Members can judge from my background that I have a good deal of respect for the Army and, of course, for the men who serve in it. Anything I say in the next few minutes should, therefore, be taken in that spirit. First, as a trade unionist, I was amazed when I read the White Paper to see that the Class A and Class B reservists still receive only 1s. 6d. and 1s. per day retainers. This is 20 years old. When the 1s. a day was paid to me quarterly after I first came out of the Army, it used to pay my gas and electricity bill. By no stretch of the imagination would it do that now. I should like to see it tied to the cost of living, just to press things along a bit. I know that   it is only a payment more or less to keep men on the books, but that is how I feel about it. There are many reasons why men join the Territorial Army, but the least of all is the one given in c. 1582 of the OFFICIAL REPORT of 16th December last. The comradeship is what man misses when he comes out into civilian life after five or six years as a Regular soldier. This is very real. I can remember joining the Territorial Army for, probably, just this one reason. I missed the comradeship of my fellow soldiers, and it took a great deal of effort on my part to settle in to civilian life. This is undoubtedly one of the problems, and it is one reason why men join the Territorial Army. Of course, the extra money also comes in handy when a man is just starting in life with a young family. So do the paid holidays, the annual camps. If anyone does not think that the annual camp is a paid holiday for a man after working 50 weeks in the year in a coal mine, I can tell him that it certainly is. Whether we like it or not, the Territorial Army also fills a social need in the area where its units are established. This is another factor influencing ex-Regular soldiers who feel a bit lost when they come out into civilian life. The licensing hours are bad, and there are not very many good poker schools around in the area where he goes to live. I come now to recruitment to the Regular Army. I was in the Sherwood Rangers Yeomanry in the Territorial Army, and I would say that most of the members in my particular squadron were ex-Regular soldiers doing their best to revert back to civilian life. Those who could not make it in time rejoined the Colours. This is where the majority of men come from. Just about the only people I know who rejoined the Army from the Territorial Army were of that type. We had an Army Cadet Force attached to us, and this, of course, is another source of recruits to the Regular Army. This is quite logical. When Army cadets reach the age of 17½, they are eligible to join the Territorial Army, and they are old enough to join the Regular Army if they want to. Any soldier would sooner belong to an efficient, well trained, up-to-date unit,  properly armed and on a proper establishment. Unfortunately, in nine out of ten units the establishment was quite under strength. This at once tends to produce inefficiency. We have more tanks than men and more guns than gunners. The Bill now before us is designed to look at the problem as a whole and to look at it from a rational point of view. What we ought to have, and what the Bill, surely, entails, is fewer units on a proper establishment, on a proper footing, well trained and well armed to do the job expected of them. I come now to my last point, on Clause 5 of the Bill, the call-out of reserves. This is a touchy point with me, because I was a Class B reservist at the time of the Suez affair. Not wishing to be controversial, I call it just an ""affair"". I had served in Egypt in the Canal Zone, and I had been trained in amphibious landings, so I thought that the odds on my being recalled at that time were very high. Incidentally, I could never understand why the medium of radio and television could not be used to recall the reservists needed. At that time, we had the laughable situation—at least, it would be laughable were it not so serious—of men working in the coal mines miles underground at the working faces, and someone came crawling up to them on his hands and knees to say, ""Your country needs you. Off to Egypt""—and away they had to go. I would tell my colleagues on this side of the House that I was fortunate enough not to be recalled, so I had no hand whatsoever in the Suez campaign. I believe that the outcry about the Government White Paper was grossly exaggerated. It may seem to many hon. Members and to many laymen—and one cannot be more a layman than a lancecorporal—that all the fears about this were purely in this House. I am a member of my local council, and it was my duty to oppose a motion there of non-support of the Government over this issue. The debate received a very good press. I was warned that I should have to sit back and wait for the deluge of mail. When it arrived—I emphasise ""it""—it was from an officer of one of the local regiments, and all that he was worried about was redundancy; and it was his own redundancy at that. In my constituency we have two drill halls within about a mile and a half of   each other. Undoubtedly, they meet a social need, but it is obvious to us in the locality that each is working under immense difficulties. It is clear that the Bill will match up the needs in this respect so that one of these drill halls can go. Our local authorities have had their eyes on them for some while, and my own authority would like to have at least one of the drill halls, if not both of them. Having recognised the need for the Bill, my main function in being here, as I have told my constituency, is to work to help bring about the right conditions in Britain, Europe and the world so that one day in the not too far distant future I may be here debating not the Reserve Forces Bill, but a Bill for the abolition of the Reserve Forces and, at some time in the future, a Bill for the abolition of all armed forces.
