gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Birmingham, Northfield (Mr. King) and my hon. Friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull, West (Mr. Randall) on their maiden speeches. I hope that Members will find what I have to say of interest. At the general election the constituency of Wrexham suffered major changes. Electorally, one quarter of the constituency was hived off to a different area and parts of the old Flint county—the Maelor farming area—and the residential area of Marford and Hoseley were attached to the town of Wrexham. The ITN and BBC figures on the notional majority were wrong. They forecast that Wrexham would be a Labour seat, and it never appeared on any list as a marginal seat. Of course, the people of Wrexham knew better, as did the Labour, Conservative and Liberal parties. We all knew that it would be a marginal seat. At the end of the day, the Labour party won the seat and we hope to make it a safe seat in years to come. I wish to pay tribute to all the workers and helpers that ensured a Labour victory. It would be wrong of me as a new Member to depart from convention, although I may do so when I have been here for a few years and have better judgment on which conventions are worth keeping. I wish to pay tribute to Mr. Tom Ellis, the previous Member for Wrexham. I disagreed with him on policy—I do not wish to be hypocritical—but I can say without qualification that he served the people of Wrexham and was a good constituency Member of Parliament. I said earlier that Wrexham had suffered major changes, but I know that the Boundary Commission must get its changes right. The important issues are unemployment and the provision of services, education and housing. Since 1979 there has been disaster after disaster in Wrexham. There have been 1,000 redundancies in the steel making plant at Brymbo. The future well-being of Brymbo depends on the well-being of the car industry in the west midlands. Although we have a modern steel making plant, there have been 1,000 redundancies and there is no hope of a change in that position. The Government have not held out any promise of change. Unemployment in Wrexham is about 20 per cent., but probably it is well above that figure if all those wanting work register. About 10,000 people want work in the Wrexham area but cannot get it. Having listened to the Secretary of State, I do not think that that position will change. He said that no one could doubt that recovery had begun. Yet he must know, as we all know, that Government spokesmen have been saying that for the past three years. I could supply him with a list of Government spokesmen who, every two or three months, have said that we have turned the corner, that the economy has begun to recover or that we are on a plateau. But all those remarks have fallen to ashes. Unless the Government change their policy, the Secretary of State's words will also fall to ashes. The privatisation of the telecommunications industry will not be a success in Wales, and we view the prospect with alarm. If privatisation takes place, Wales will face higher charges and a poorer service. The Government's lack of clarity is to be regretted. I want them to say what they mean. I served on a local authority in Wales, although not on the Wrexham-Maelor borough council. There are 2,000   people on the waiting list for houses in Wrexham, yet because of the block grant allocations the council has not built any houses for rent other than one or two sheltered accommodation units. The council has been squeezed unmercifully by Government policies and the Welsh Office. Only two or three months ago the Welsh Office told local authorities what their block grant might be for next year. Until then, allocations came at the last moment and local authorities had to decide their expenditure at the last moment. While I do not have experience of how Government works, I know that one cannot run local authority housing programmes on a year-to-year, hand-to-mouth basis. One needs a five-year rolling programme which so far has not been delivered by the Government. The Government also say that they wish to penalise high-spending authorities, but they have sold nearly all local authorities into slavery. There are limits on revenue expenditure and draconian powers and penalties should limits be exceeded. The authority on which I served, Ceredigion, exceeded the limits. It sper t at only 78 per cent. of grant-related expenditure. How can the Government penalise an authority just because in 1978–79 it happened to have a year of low spending? How can they penalise such an authority for spending only 78 per cent. of what, on the Government's own figures, it should be spending? The Government should come clean on this. If they intend to penalise high-spending ituthorities— that is an argument into which I will not enter now—why do they penalise authorities that are trying to provide a service to the public and that are not high spender; but are, in fact, spending a great deal less than the grant-related expenditure assessment? My main priority is the creation of employment in Wrexham. The people of Wrexham wish to see the creation of employment. I identify myself with the speeches of other Labour Members who have made employment their first priority. I resent e implication of the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry that we are worried about it only because of doctrinal policies or because of dogma. I sincerely wish the Government success in bringing down unemployment. I wish that they would do it, because they are the Government, not us. However, unless they change their policies only one thing will happen— unemployment will increase. I see it as my job and the job of the Opposition to oppose those policies in the House of Commons, and that I propose to do.
