gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Two weeks ago within a few days a cemetery attendant, a father of three, was shot dead on his way to work, a father of nine was cold-bloodedly gunned down in the street and a farm labourer was found dead, riddled with bullets. Such atrocities have become commonplace in my country, in an area corresponding to the size of Yorkshire. At the whim of a cowardly back-street gunman another family may be orphaned, another wife widowed, and this Government, the previous Government and the one before that seem powerless to stop it. A principal function, if not the principal function, of a State is to provide security for its citizens. This State has conspicuously failed to do that, and so Government after Government have caused hostility and bitterness among our people. Never is that bitterness more apparent in Northern Ireland than when we see the fuss made in the press and on television when terrorist activity occurs in England that by our standards would be mild. We then realise that the Government are prepared to accept different  levels of security in this country. In displaying that the Government earn the contempt of all our people. One repeatedly hears in the streets and shops angrily expressed resentment that if one hundredth of the killings that we have to endure were to take place in England something would have been done about it long ago. If the Government are not to forfeit their right to be called a Government, if the rule of law is to be anything other than a hollow mockery, if the Government are to be entitled to the regard and obedience of their citizens, it is their solemn duty to consider how these murders can be ended. What reassurance do the people of Northern Ireland have with the advent of a new Government? We were full of expectation that they would act with more urgent appreciation of the problems than their predecessors. Then we hear that the best that the new Secretary of State can think of, when discussing our problems with the Dublin Government, was to suggest that perhaps the RUC detectives should be allowed the right to interrogate in the Republic of Ireland. When we hear rubbish like that, we realise once more with a sickening heart that this Government are just not fit for the task of governing and for the responsibility that that implies. This is not a problem that can be solved by petty diplomatic speeches and pleasant, inoffensive drawing room conversation. This is a matter of life and death. If the Government do not think of it as such they betray their own function and our community. Ordinary men and women look to the Government for protection. Children rely on them to preserve their fathers. We want only the right to go about our daily business in safety and peace. It is up to the Government to rid us of the scourge of these cowardly gunmen. In the long years of suffering all Governments have toyed with the problem when they have not actually ignored it altogether. Even at this late stage if the Government do not apply themselves with vigour and determination to saving citizens from slaughter, the blood of those citizens will be on their hands. First, the Government must rid themselves of some of the myths that have been contrived by a superficial press, and   which they happily seem to accept as facts. They seem to think that these killers express the will of a significant section of the people in Northern Ireland. That is rubbish. Election after election has seen candidates of parties loosely associated with the killers humiliated at the polls. The Government also seem to think that the gunmen are inspired by religious fanaticism. Religion in any of its aspects is not even considered by them. All religious denominations disown them. The Government seem to think that they are capable of political dialogue and that they have some genuine, if outlandish, political outlook. These thugs and corner boys have no political understanding. The Government seem to think that, if they harass them, the killers will react with even greater viciousness. But these are cowards and should be treated as cowards. Because they are cowards they will be deterred by only one thing—the realisation that if they kill they themselves will die at the hands of the State. Long prison sentences have lost their deterrent effect. These men, rightly or wrongly, believe that they will not serve the whole of their term. They are convinced that there will be some kind of amnesty and there is no point in saying that Government statements have continually attempted to discourage such a belief. This belief will continue and, as a result, it has helped to rob long sentences of their fearsomeness. The lives of our people must be protected. Have the Government the moral courage to do what should be done? Or, for all their fine words to the country, are they secretly afraid that such action might agitate greater terrorist activity in London or England? My belief is that the Government's fear of this stays their hand and makes them compromise with evil. This belief is shared by huge numbers of my countrymen. The Government must stop dithering and summon up their resolve. By their inactivity and stupidity they have perpetrated great wrongs upon part of their own country. Even at this late stage they should try to make amends by providing the security that is a necessary basis for ordinary social life. They must not be misled by the sentiment that if a terrorist is hanged he will become a martyr. So  what? Even if he were, he would be a martyr to only a small number of his fellow thugs. I would happily accept a couple of martyrs in return for the lives of thousands of innocent victims of these troubles. Our people are crying out for a deterrent. Before anyone starts talking about the death penalty not being a deterrent, let him understand that that may be so when one is dealing with murderers who are mentally deranged, overcome with passion or roused in alcohol. These are not the sort of murderers that we are discussing now. We are talking about the animals who coldly and calculatingly plan the cutting down of a defenceless man or woman long before the event. At one fell swoop the power of the godfathers would be broken by the death penalty. Whatever threat they might use upon their subordinates would be more than matched by the fear of hanging. I am not advocating the death penalty for murderers of policemen and soldiers only. This is a distinction without logic or principle. I am advocating death for the terrorist murder of any man, woman or child. In the name of goodness, the Government must not wait for the passing of more years and the loss of more lives before confessing, as the first Secretary of State for Northern Ireland did recently, that a terrible mistake had been made. Are we supposed to be gratified because he says publicly what every fool in Ulster knew at the time—namely, that he was wrong to institute the status of political prisoner? He was told that at the time, but he knew otherwise. His late conversion and confession may show that there is some salvation in him as a man, but it certainly does not excuse his stupidity at the time. It is that stupidity which we do not want to cloud the issue. We have suffered long enough. Have the Government the intelligence to see how the trouble can be stopped, and the moral courage to carry it through? The people of Ulster pray that they have.
