gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me to enable me to make my maiden speech in the House on this historic occasion. It may sound a little incongruous to hon. Members if I refer to my long connection with it. They would be forgiven if they said, ""If you have a long connection with it, why on earth are you making your maiden speech now?"". I am, of course, referring to my industrial connection with the House. It was my privilege to play a small part in the reconstruction of this great Chamber when it was damaged in the war. Through the 1940s, as hon. Members know only too well, we had a devastated Chamber. There was great difficulty in those days in finding the craftsmen with the skills the results of which adorn the Chamber now. Many hon. Members who come here daily will forget, so may I remind them, that the skills which they see represented in hardwood in the Chamber are now probably lost. We probably no longer have the craftsmen capable of performing those skills. I should like to mention another part of this great palace with which it was my privilege also to be connected. I refer to the construction of the boiler house under the grass surface in the Victoria Tower gardens. Not many people know that in the early 1950s there was there constructed a Chamber which was the first of the ""car parks"", and therein was put the central heating system, and probably the air-conditioning system now.   Some may feel that it is very good and that it adds to our heated comfort, but I regret to say that in the past two weeks I have found it adding to my heated discomfort more than once. Whatever the result, both departments are a matter of engineering skill of which we should be justly proud. We should not forget, and I will not allow hon. Members to forget, the skills involved in the work to which I have referred. Hon. Members will gather that I have been connected with the construction industry for some time. In fact, I have been connected with it throughout my working life. The record of the construction industry is not perfect. No human institution is perfect, but we compare tolerably well with most other industries. I should like to direct hon. Members' attention to the features of the construction industry which make relationships between workpeople and management and between men and their jobs extremely difficult. We all know, but very often we forget, that the weather is a most important factor in the industry's performance. The location of work is very important. Hon. Members should be aware of the multiplicity of wage rates, plus rates, extras for skill, extras for conditions, and the complicated wage structure throughout that great industry. I mention these points because some hon. Members opposite have said that we should declare our interest, and my interest, which I now declare, is a lifetime spent working from the bottom up in the building industry. I am all for experience, but if declaring our interest means that we can only experience something if we have done it, then I point out to hon. Members that one does not have to lay an egg in order to know that it probably hurts the hen. My predecessor, Mr. Hooley, was proud, as indeed I am, to represent part of the great City of Sheffield, one of our great industrial cities. Though we are diametrically opposed in politics, we take great pride in the craftsmanship and skill of the citizens of that great city which have made Sheffield known throughout the world. One way in which we can always recognise a person with some connection with Sheffield is that if he comes into our house as a guest, or into a restaurant, he will always look at the knives  and forks to see where they are made. I can assure hon. Members that the Catering Department of the Palace of Westminster knows a good thing, for it has Sheffield cutlery on the tables. After the General Election, knowing that our industrial relations proposals would probably cause some difficulty—if I may understate the position—and controversy, I went to the trouble of trying to establish relations with the trade union leaders in Sheffield who had written to me during the election campaign. I believe that there is no better way of understanding the other man's point of view or of enabling him to understand one's own than by getting a conversation or dialogue going. I was reinforced in this view when I read that our industrial relations proposals were being described as ""a major attack on the rights of workpeople."" I assure hon. Members that I would be no party to legislation that constituted a major attack on the workpeople of this country. I therefore wrote to the trade unions—and I took this positive action entirely on my own account—asking whether they would meet me. I wrote as follows: I would like to suggest to you that at as early a date as possible, if you can arrange it, I have the opportunity of meeting a small, representative group of your members in order to exchange views with regard to the Conservative Government's proposals on industrial relations. I would suggest that any such meeting be private, and I would hope that it would lead on to other meetings, perhaps embracing wider trade union representation. I very much regret that I did not receive a reply. One month later I wrote again, and to this letter I received the following reply: Dear Mr. Spence, Thank you for your letter and your previous letter of 21st July, 1970. It is receiving the attention of the Sheffield District Committee, and I will be communicating with you further in this matter. I have not received any further information. No one has been in touch with me, nor has my positive, constructive approach to the trade unions had any positive response on their side. I very much regret this, purely from the point of view of wanting to exchange information. I do not think that it is right for a person responsible for the affairs of other people not to want to meet the person with whom he may have a disagreement, and to be unwilling to allow   himself to be educated by the facts. That was my sole purpose, and still is. All I asked for was an opportunity for timely discussion. I now turn to the Consultative Document itself. It contains points and provisions which I, in all conscience, cannot possibly square with the charge that it is a major attack on the rights of our work-people. I cannot see that making it compulsory in law for employers to give recognition to trade unions constitutes such an attack. Nor can I see the stronger provisions against unfair dismissal constituting such an attack, nor the disclosure of more information by companies, nor the agency shop system. Nor do I see that causing management to take a good look at itself and accept its responsibiliteis—and there is management in trade unions too—is an attack on our workpeople. We all admit that there is some bad management in this country. I cannot see that this document is acting contrary to the best interests of the work-people. This does not mean that there are not some points in the document in relation to which I have certain reservations. There are, and I would like to refer to one of them. My right hon. Friend has very kindly remained here while I am speaking and I draw his attention to this matter. Prompt decision making in the industrial relations process is of vital importance. I believe that a long-drawn-out hearing or delay only adds to the frustration and, worst of all, unless delay is avoided the inevitable consequence is that the workpeople involved will lose their faith in the industrial process itself. Therefore, the hallmark of the functions of the industrial tribunals must be prompt and speedy decision making, and that will go a long way, irrespective and regardless of the decisions themselves. My experience tells me that speed and promptness are even more important than the decision which comes out of the machine at the end of the day. I deeply regret the necessity for legislation in this matter but I believe that the proposals cointained in the document create an opportunity for both management and trade unions to lead from the front and not, as has disgusted many of us in the past, and as we are experiencing  at this, to attempt to lead from behind.
