gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am humble before Almighty God, before you, Mr. Deputy Speaker and before fellow right hon. and hon. Members at being given this opportunity to deliver my maiden speech. I reveal a large amount of courage to face the packed Benches opposite and the crowded  Galleries that have gathered for this momentous occasion. I am the first Conservative Member for Parliament ever to be elected for my constituency. The first task I have is easy—to pay a sincere, warm and generous tribute to the former Member, Dr. Colin Phipps, who had the unique gift of being a good constituency Member. He was equally respected and popular, and because of that it is a heavy responsibility for me to represent the constituency. The only gifts I bring to the House are experience and service. The day I completed my education at university, I enlisted as a Regular soldier. I served for four years in the Armed Services of the late King, and on my release I joined the police service and served with some distinction for 12 years. For the last 15 years I have been walking the avenues of industry in the West Midlands. I am, naturally, a trade unionist. In January this year, from a membership in my branch of 268, the 23 souls that gathered re-elected me for the tenth successive year as branch secretary. My constituency is in the heart of the Black Country. I cannot say that in Dudley, West we produce motor cars, but I can say that we produce the components for that industry. My constituency owes its very existence to men and women and families who have placed their life savings in forming small businesses to serve the engineering industry of the West Midlands, of which the motor car is such an integral part. It was their vision and dedication which brought about these prosperous and successful small businesses. One of the by-products of those businesses was something called profit. To me, the word ""profit"" is not obscene. Indeed, from profit come pay, pension schemes, welfare benefits, sports and social facilities and benevolent schemes. Much more important, from profit eventually should come investment; and from investment comes increased productivity and more jobs. To me, these are the fundamentals of the engineering industries centred in the West Midlands. I see here this evening many hon. Members representing constituencies in that area. Tragically the picture that I have painted is not the one that has been   portrayed to me in recent years. I am sad to say that the picture is just the opposite. Bankruptcies have occurred on a wide scale. Because of little or no profit, there are no job security, no job prospects and no continuity. The end product, tragically, is unemployment. When the last Conservative Government were in power, at no time did unemployment in the West Midlands exceed 2 per cent. Today the unemployment rate is 5·7 per cent. I applaud the concept in the Finance Bill. The word ""incentive"" appears in that Bill. It refers to incentive to work, to save; incentive to enterprise, to commerce and unions; and incentive to the investor, who has been forgotten, and to the worker and director. The motor industry could not function without the products from my constituency—steel, rubber and plastics. Those products would not be manufactured without viable small businesses. I have travelled within my constituency for the last five years. A message is conveyed when one passes a factory called ""Bill Hankey and Son Ltd."". That is what industry is about. A father opens a limited liability company business to service the motor industry. Those magic words ""and son"" are added later. That creates continuity in a family business, and it thrives. It is not the Government's task to run industry. Governments and politicians are incapable of doing that. The role of the House of Commons is not to run industry. The solemn responsibility of the House is to create an environment and an incentive under which industry can develop and prosper. That is the reason for tonight's debate. We have languished at the bottom of the league of industrial investment. We must invest in new plant and new machinery in the motor industry. We must have faith in the work forces of the West Midlands and trust them to produce the goods. The country regards this Government as a Government of vision. The country expects this Government to create the industrial society which we seek. We are all of one mind on that. The people I represent say that they want less government, not more; less legislation, not  more; less Government interference, and to be allowed to develop their businesses. We cannot operate without the strong who can provide for the weak. It is not the Government's task to bail out those companies which behave commercially irresponsibly. The money to bail them out comes from the companies which have acted commercially and responsibly. It is difficult to develop a components industry to supply the motor car trade without some continuity, some certainty and some planning. It is impossible, without these factors, to plan production, costing, agency arrangements and even publicity and promotional budgets. How can an industry plan when the market is so unstable? The challenge facing us in this debate is to support every effort by British Leyland to become financially sound. When it does, the small companies in my constituency will know that they have a future to plan for. Perhaps I may be permitted at this late hour to tell you a bedside story, Mr. Deputy Speaker. It has a close relationship to this debate. A clergyman on holiday went to a local church with his family. As he entered the church, he put 50p in the box as he went in to worship. When the preacher did not arrive, the elders of the church invited him to take the service, which he did. As he was leaving, the sidesman said that whatever was in the box was always given to the preacher. The clergyman's son looked up at his father and said ""Daddy, if you had put more in, you would have got more out."" That is what this debate is all about. Dudley, West, the West Midlands and the whole country as well as the Chancellor, the Government and this House have placed their faith and trust in industry and the trade unions to produce the growth we seek. I believe that that faith is not misplaced. I conclude my maiden speech by dedicating myself to be worthy of the high calling. I can find no higher.
