gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is an honour to be called at the beginning of an important debate of this nature, particularly when one's speech is a maiden. I ask your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, and humbly ask that you be not too strict in calling me to heel or to order as may be required during the proceedings. I entered upon this subject with some trepidation, but with only a little: with some trepidation because, strictly speaking, it does not concern my constituency of Bradford, but yet without too much humility because I was sent to this honourable House by the people of Bradford to speak up on their behalf on matters of national importance. In the House there are few matters of such national importance as the voting of funds. It is noteworthy that in these Supplementary Estimates that for defence is by far the largest of the individual items. Therefore, I gladly participate in this debate. I also participate gladly because for many years I was a regular officer under the Crown and also because I have worked in the aircraft manufacturing industry which does so much to support the efficiency and operational capacity of our Armed Forces. Before I proceed, I should like as a new and green Member to pay tribute to the late right hon. Member for Enfield, West. I do so speaking as a Yorkshireman, because shortly before his death Iain Macleod was bereaved of his mother who lived quite near my constituency of Bradford. He was due to speak in our election campaign but was unable to be present. We fought on and we won, as he would have wished. Those of us who are new Members on the back benches took great inspiration from Iain Macleod's example, and, above all, from his physical courage. In seeking to pay tribute to this great right hon. and, as the Prime Minister said, exceedingly gallant man, I turn to ""Profiles in Courage"", by J. F. Kennedy, who was himself throughout his public   service physically handicapped, in which he said, quoting Senator Beveridge, A party can live only by growing; intolerance of ideas brings its death.… An organisation that depends on reproduction only for its vote, son taking the place of father, is not a political party but a Chinese Tong; not citizens brought together by thought and conscience, but a tribe held together by blood and privilege. It was the example of his conscience and his courage, and his appeal to other interests beyond our party, which gave such inspiration to new Members, like myself, sitting behind the new Administration. I must pay a tribute also to my predecessors who represented my part of the fine city of Bradford, which, as the House knows, is at the industrial heart of our proud nation. I pay tribute to Mr. Haseldine, a loyal scion of the Co-operative Movement if ever there was one, and a personal friend whom I came to respect, and, above all, I pay a tribute to Arthur Tiley, who, for 11 long years, held high the lamp of a proud conscience and a great magnanimity, which are, perhaps, features of the straightforward Yorkshire Conservatism which he served so well. Perhaps I may add that those Gentlemen opposite who did not return as Members to this Parliament owe some debt of gratitude to Mr. Tiley because, as we all know, he served the House well in the institution of the pension scheme. There is much to say about the Supplementary Estimates. It may appear as a technical matter, but for those like myself—I think also of my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Aberdeenshire, West (Lieut.-Colonel Mitchell)—who served under the Crown under the last Administration, there is far more in them than first meets the eye. The first noteworthy feature of the Supplementary Estimate now under discussion is that it is all devoted to pay and allowances. While all hon. and gallant Members would wish to see members of the Armed Forces properly and fairly remunerated, they must at the same time have some anxiety about the preponderance of this supplementary estimate going to the Regular forces as opposed to the Reserve, the auxiliaries and auxiliary formations. The most serious limitation on strategy left to us by the right hon. Gentleman  the Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey) has been his emphasis on Regular forces, whose pay we now have to consider. This is a serious deficiency, for it means that in a lengthy period of hostilities this country will have no capability of military expansion. In examining this Vote and seeking cause to justify it, I take into account not only the question of right and proper remuneration for officers and men in the Services but also our strategic posture and the question of judgment as to whether this exceedingly large sum does anything to enhance our defence credibility. Reluctantly, though recognising the need of many gallant friends still serving in their respective Services, I have come to the conclusion that this particular Vote does nothing to provide either more equipment or a greater credibility of posture.
