gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I had not thought of entering into the debate on the fourth day of this Parliament, and I would not have done so but for the speech of the hon. Member for Dorset, North (Mr. Crouch). Even if I had not heard that speech, I would have been tempted to make an intervention after listening to the speech of the hon. Member for Tynemouth (Miss Ward). May I say to her that she gave several refreshing indications of conversion at some time in the future, particularly when she talked of the railwaymen. I think that it may have escaped her notice that today the railwaymen have reaped one of the advantages of the last administration by being given an 8 per cent. increase in their wages and certain other advantages in regard to Saturday and Sunday working. I welcome some of the hints that she gave which showed that she understood that the real problem of the railway and transport industry is the responsibility not merely of the industry but of the State. I was induced spontaneously to enter into this discussion by the charges made by the hon. Member for Dorset, North, who seemed to me to say that the increase in agricultural production in recent years was not a factual increase of produce but a monetary increase of value. When my hon. Friend the Member for Central Ayrshire (Mr. Manuel), intervened to correct him, the hon. Member underlined the point, restated it and argued that it was, in fact, more an increase in the monetary values than in the produce values. Records very clearly show that the increase has, in fact, been spectacular in actual produce values. I am not very well acquainted with the actual figures of increase in England and Wales, but I know that in Scotland the Scottish Farmers' Union are enthusiastic about the extent   and percentage of the increase, particularly since 1947. In poultry, pigs, cereals, cattle, milk, and indeed in every aspect of production in Scotland this increase has been of a high percentage, not merely in a monetary sense—it has, of course, been in monetary values, too—but also, which is much more important, in actual produce. I should like now to make reference to two of the shortest paragraphs in the Gracious Speech, those dealing with the affairs of Scotland and the affairs of Wales. That dealing with Scotland amounts to 18 words—18 vague words of postponement; that dealing with Wales to 23 words, equally vague but nevertheless recording something which has been attempted. It is true that that something has been received with raucous and scornful laughter by every Welshman with whom I have come in contact, but they are a record of something actually approved. These 18 words for Scotland are vague terms of something unspecified, which may or may not take place as the programme of the Government unfolds itself. There is no mention in those 18 words of the appointment of the Royal Commission, for which many organisations of the heterogeneous nature that we in Scotland encourage sold their souls to the Tory Party at the last Election. They agreed to sink all their previous programmes in support of the promise of a Royal Commission. My hon. Friends on this side of the House, who represent Scottish constituencies, have no material objection to the appointment of a Royal Commission, providing we know what its terms of reference are. I have some sympathy with this Royal Commission that is subsequently to be appointed, and I hope that the Government will perhaps consult us about the terms of reference. I have no hope that we, as corporate Members of this House, will be able to reach agreement upon those terms of reference. I am not despairing about that, because I know, as a matter of certainty, that whatever terms of reference may be agreed upon and conveyed back to Scotland, no two persons in that country will ever reach agreement upon them. It is rather significant that the right hon. and gallant Gentleman whom I suspect to be the author of the Conservative Party's alleged policy for Scotland, the right hon. and gallant Member for Kelvingrove (Lieut.-Colonel Elliot), still remains a back bencher and receives small reward for his many efforts in preparing and working out that very vague and face-saving policy. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is now in the House. I wonder whether I might put one final point which has been rather worrying me with regard to the speech which he so competently made this afternoon. He made a reference to the building programme. Perhaps it is a small point, but it is one which is exercising my mind. I can explain what I mean by an example which arises in my constituency. I have an engineering works which has a very good record for progressive management, and for progressive ideas of ploughing back into the industry the profits that are made and maintaining for its directors a small margin of profit. This industry wishes to expand itself, but is unable to do so because the land surrounding its works is a bog which is becoming increasingly waterlogged. There is a danger of the seeping water reaching a furnace, and that the seepage, unless it is stopped, will close that furnace down. The workers are in very great personal danger. The firm are wondering what they will have to do. The news today of the prevention of further building makes me wonder whether a firm in that position would be able to get permits not only to do the necessary drainage, which is a local government matter in that area but, when that is done—and it must be done very speedily or that furnace will close down and the valuable engineering production will cease—to carry on the building of an extention of their factories for products which will have a great value in the near future for this country in general and for Scotland in particular. I am sorry I have selected so many brief and perhaps trivial points for this speech, which I had not anticipated making tonight, and I crave the indulgence of the House for making them at such great length.
