gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am sure that my hon. Friend the Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) will not take it amiss if, in the interests of brevity, I restrict my contratulations to him on his maiden speech. I hope that I can emulate his clarity, brevity and eloquence. It is a great privilege to be the first Member for Slough. It is the first time that the boundaries of the borough and of the constituency have been coterminus, having relinquished Eton to the care of my hon. Friend the Member for Windsor and Maidenhead (Dr. Glyn) and gained the areas of Britwell and Wexham Lea from my hon. Friend the Member for Beaconsfield (Mr. Smith). Slough has a strong identity, a strong local pride and a tremendous community spirit. It may reasonably be described as diverse in every sense. My constituents come from a variety of racial, cultural and religious backgrounds. I have within my constituency industry of every size and of wide range. We claim to have the largest industrial estate in Europe, and we are at the hub of the motorway network. Our communications will be greatly improved by the completion of the M25. The range of industry stretches from paint to a well-known chocolate confection which helps us to work, rest and play. We also have more than 30 companies engaged in the supply of defence equipment. Slough is one of those rare educational oases where good grammar and secondary modern schools have been retained. I suspect that most hon. Members will know Slough mainly for the way in which it was unfairly immortalised by the poet laureate in the words: Come friendly bombs and fall on Slough. I must tell Sir John that that is out of date. No bombs, friendly or otherwise, will ever fall on Slough because it has been declared a nuclear-free zone. Indeed, my Labour-controlled council is at this moment erecting signs—although I understand that they are in English, not Russian —which will have the magical effect of deflecting any bombs away from Slough. My constituents can sleep soundly in their beds, because of my local council's farsighted decision, or so it would like to think. However, my constituents are a little more sensible than that. More than 52 per cent. of them voted in the general election for candidates who believe in maintaining strong defences to provide for their security both from attack and in employment. After all, 3,000 or more jobs in my constituency depend on defence industries. I am sure that hon. Members will understand when I say that I find that I have little in common politically with my immediate predecessor, Miss Lestor. However, I admire at least one of her qualities. She had firm views, which she held consistently, and she did not budge from her principles, even when political expediency might have dictated that that was the politic course of action. In that   respect, I hope to follow in her footsteps, as well as in holding on to my constituency in at least five general elections. Sticking to principles is a characteristic of my three immediate predecessors. My hon. Friend the Member for Clwyd, North-West (Sir A. Meyer) is still remembered with great affection in the constituency, together with Lord Brockway, who visited it during the recent campaign. I hope to continue in their tradition of leadership and service to the constituency. I am glad to make my first contribution to debate in the House on the subject of the youth training scheme, because it is vital to this country's future and to my constituents' well-being. Slough remains prosperous. It has the 17th lowest level of unemployment in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, the young people I visited in schools and met in the streets and on doorsteps during the election campaign were apprehensive about their future. Our education system has been too slow to adapt to matching the needs of modern industry and to provide our young people with the skills that they require to meet them. Local firms in my constituency are already experiencing shortages of skilled labour, despite unemployment of 7·5 per cent. Proper training for work would meet both the needs of industry and the aspirations of school leavers. We have heard much scepticism from Opposition Members about what lies at the end of a youth training scheme course. Like my hon. Friend the Member for Banbury (Mr. Baldry), I can bring words of comfort to Opposition Members. The London borough of Hillingdon, of which I am leader, set up a training workshop three years ago. We took over a derelict factory which the first intake of trainees was required to put into good order, carrying out bricklaying, plumbing, electrical work and so on. After three years of operation we have a proud record, although perhaps not quite as proud at; that of my hon. Friend. More than 90 per cent. of all those who have undertaken courses there have found full-time employment before the end of their training period. It is not insulting young people to say that they need to become accustomed to the disciplines of work. That is one of the skills that they need to learn if they are tc make themselves acceptable to employers. I have been encouraged by the good response of employers in my constituency to the youth training scheme. Indeed, one of my earliest constituency engagements was to visit the local chamber of commerce, which is arranging the supply of 200 places for the youth training scheme. That is a very encouraging start, but it is not enough in itself. I look upon it as a foundation, on which I hope to help industry in my constituency to build. However, one point has been put to me strongly from the point of view of small business. There is a fear that the scheme's administration could deter small businesses from playing as full a part in the scheme as they might otherwise do. It is essential that we ensure that small businesses are not deterred from playing the fullest possible part. Without their contribution, YTS will not have the success that I believe we all wish for it. I ask my hon. Friend the Minister carefully to consider whether, after a few months of operation, the scheme should be reviewed to ensure that there is no bar within its administrative arrangements to small businesses playing as full a part as they would wish and as we need. In the justified desire to spread computer literacy and to provide training in the high technology skills that are    now required, we should not effectively exclude from the youth training scheme youngsters who are capable of developing valuable manual skills but do not necessarily have the potential for developing high technology skills. I hope that we shall not lose sight of what they have to offer. I believe that the youth training scheme is the beet that Britain has ever seen, and I strongly support it. I shall do everything that I can to promote it within my constituency. However, there is no room for us to be complacent: The scheme cannot be perfect at its outset. All hon. Members must ensure that it is adaptable to changing needs and provides the foundation for successful and valuable careers for our young people for many decades.
