gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not see how I can adequately follow the right hon. Member for Down, South (Mr. Powell) in his expert demolition of the case presented by the Front Bench of the Conservative Opposition, but in rising for this first time to address the House I am bound to refer to my great predecessor, John Mackintosh, the former Member for Berwick and East Lothian. This House, and the country as a whole, can ill-afford to lose men of his stature. He was an inspiration to many of us, not least his constituents. I well remember how only 12 years ago I, like many young people at that time, was a cynical youth convinced that all politicians were by definition liars. Nevertheless, I went along to the election meetings of the various parties in my local village school at Paxton and that was when I first heard and saw John Mackintosh. He impressed me then, and he continued to do so right up to his death, with his eloquence, learning, wit, hard work and, above all, his integrity. The great quality which he possessed of saying and doing what he thought was right, rather than what might have   seemed convenient, earned him the respect and the affection of people of all political persuasions throughout the constituency. Many hon. Members must have been impressed during the run-up to the by-election by the genuine sense of loss and distress expressed by so many people throughout Berwickshire and East Lothian, both at meetings and on the doorstep, at the loss of their former Member of Parliament. There is a lesson for all of us in this. If we are always open and stick to what we believe in we may not always be able to satisfy our Whips, but in the end we shall earn the respect of our constituents. I believe that they are the people who really matter to us. John Mackintosh was one of the great pioneers in the argument for devolved power for Scotland. He was also one of the main advocates of British participation in the European Community. It is extremely sad that he has not lived to see the democratic elections to the Scottish and European Asemblies, things in which he always believed and which will take place not so very long from now. I am no academic, and it will take me a long time to achieve any level of eloquence, but I am determined to stick to John Mackintosh's tradition of political integrity. I understand that at this stage in a maiden speech it is traditional to make some reference to one's constituency. In the circumstances this is a little superfluous, because practically every hon. Member, for one reason or another, must have been in my constituency during the run-up to the by-election. But so far as I know you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, were not, so I shall refer briefly to the two counties which I now represent. Berwick and East Lothian is a diverse constituency. It is also a big one. Agriculture, together with its associated services, constitutes our main industry. There are also mining communities, a cement works, a brewery which makes real ale and, largely thanks to the Scottish Development Agency, an increasing amount of light engineering, food processing industries and other small new industries have been brought into many of the communities in the area. Berwick and East Lothian must also be one of the most beautiful constituencies in Britain. We have the Lammermuir Hills, the Bass Rock, a stretch of the River Tweed and about 100 miles of coastline. It is also unquestionably one of the most politically astute constituencies in the land. I think that I should now refer to the Gracious Speech because I should hate to be ruled out of order at this stage in my career. I am particularly pleased to be able to contribute to this debate while we are discussing the economy, because that was the main issue in the by-election. I believe that that was an issue on which we won the argument hands down. It would perhaps be churlish of me not to make reference to the fact that the right hon. Member for Sid-cup (Mr. Heath) also did very well in that argument, but then, of course, he was speaking from a position of experience and wisdom which left many Tories in my constituency rather perplexed, to put it mildly. My constituency is an area of low wages because the bulk of the people work either in agriculture and related industries or in the public sector. It is also an area of high costs because it is a remote, sparsely populated piece of the country which obviously has high distribution costs. I believe that in such an area of low wages and high costs it is imperative that inflation is kept under control. I urge the Government to stick to their guns on their strategy for controlling inflation. Let us have price controls and let us have the guts to stick to the incomes policy. I believe that we as Socialists are seeking to plan the economy and to protect the weak. I cannot see how we can achieve either of those aims if we leave either prices or incomes out of our calculations. Our incomes policy must be fair for everyone. It must be fair for the low paid and the badly organised as well as for everyone else. It must also be flexible and voluntary, but above all it has to work. The Government can certainly rely on my support in their fight against inflation. Indeed, as one who has perhaps had more recent experience than have most hon. Members of the wishes of the ordinary people of this country I can safely say that the Government have the support of the ordinary people of the whole country and certainly of those in Scotland. My constituency is predominantly agricultural, and as a farmer I particularly welcome the references in the Gracious Speech to the expansion of home food production and the conservation of tish stocks. I look forward to seeing the detailed proposals on those subjects. If the proposals are effective they are bound to be helpful to all my constituents. Moves to improve home production of food are also bound to be good for the economy of the whole country because they will reduce the level of unnecessary food imports that we face at present. In passing I express the pious hope that many of our farmers—who are doing extremely well despite protestations to the contrary and who will do even better with the Government's proposed measures —will pass on some of the additional benefits and greater profits that they will receive to the highly skilled but shockingly underpaid workers in agriculture. The Scottish Development Agency, which I have already mentioned, has contributed a great deal to the restructuring of industry and to the creation and preservation of jobs in Berwick and East Lothian, not only in the bigger towns but in some of the more remote communities. I welcome the proposal in the Gracious Speech to provide additional finance for the SDA. The Agency is doing valuable, positive and constructive work throughout Scotland, especially in places where private investors abdicated their responsibilities a long time ago. The SDA's work must not be curtailed. I also welcome the announcement today by the Secretary of State for Employment about extending grants to small businesses and service industries. This is bound to be helpful in many parts of the country. My constituency stands to gain a great deal from items of projected public expenditure of one kind or another, not only through the SDA but through local authorities' spending on roads and housing, through the health boards' spending on new hospital buildings and health centres, through the National Coal Board and its workings at Musselburgh, through the South of Scotland Electricity Board with the new Torness power station and through increased pensions for our old people. The Conservative Party has not yet divulged whether any or all of those  schemes will be scrapped under its proposed comprehensive attack on public expenditure. Also, the Scottish National Party has a particularly confusing standpoint on the Torness nuclear power station issue. In Berwickshire and East Lothian the SNP is against the use of nuclear power. In Caithness, where there is already a nuclear power station, the party is in favour of it. In Renfrewshire, where the boilers for power stations are made, the SNP is in favour of nuclear power. It is small wonder that the people do not take that party seriously any more. I am disappointed at the bigotry being shown by the Scottish National Party. I was listening to a speech the other night from the hon. Member for South Angus (Mr. Welsh). He was making a perfectly valid point about the state of communications and roads to Aberdeen where the oil industry is creating so much activity, but he spoiled the whole effect of it by making out that this was some kind of a sinister conspiracy by the English to do down the Scots. I do not think that anybody takes that seriously any more. People in Scotland know that Labour's plans for the economy are good for them. They are scared stiff by the Tories plans for a free-for-all. They can see that the SNP is now utterly irrelevant. That, in a nutshell, is why I am here instead of any of my opponents. The right hon. and learned Member for Surrey, East (Sir G. Howe) made a brave speech at the beginning of the debate, but I must remind him that only two weeks ago today the voters of Berwick and East Lothian—supposedly a marginal seat—gave me the biggest majority that anyone has had in that constituency since the Labour landslide of 1945. On behalf of those voters in my constituency I shall be supporting the Government in the Lobby tonight.
