gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time. I ask for its customary indulgence, the more so since I have sought permission to intervene in this debate only on the spur of the moment. I am very conscious of the fact that I have many school teachers in my constituency. I have met them, and I am indebted to many of them for the help which they gave in securing my   election to this House. I think that I have heard from them all in the last few days. Before I proceed any further on that point I should like, as this is the first occasion upon which I have addressed the House, to pay a tribute to my predecessor, who served his constituents very well for a great many years. shall do my best to emulate his example while I am privileged to be here. I shall find no undue difficulty in supporting the Government this evening, despite the representations which have been made to me, because I believe that this is only one stage along a very necessary road for the reconsideration of the whole question of the employment of teachers. I gather that it is a tradition that one should avoid being unduly controversial in one's first utterance in this Chamber. I cannot completely avoid some degree of controversy if I announce that I am going to support the Measure, but I also want to point out that I do not wholly follow the argument that this increase from 5 per cent. to 6 per cent. is necessarily a cut in salary. If I decide to increase some superannuation benefit for which I may be paying at this moment, I expect to have to pay an increased premium, but I do not regard it as a cut in my salary, because I hope to get it back at some future stage. If we are improving the superannuation benefits which will ultimately be payable to teachers—or the conditions under which those benefits will be payable—surely it is a deferred payment rather than a cut in salary. I have read a great many articles of one sort and another about the merits of this controversy. I recall that when the original Bill came before the House in 1954 the Economist was not particularly friendly towards it. I therefore looked with interest at what it had to say this time. It has made two brief reviews of the situation. The first was on 29th October, when it ended with these words: The teachers will no doubt have several minor points to argue about the new Bill. But if they raise as great a storm about it as about the old one, they will be showing a poor sense of proportion. They will also deserve far less sympathy. On 26th November, the Economist said:  It therefore seems probable that Members of Parliament and others must expect the same shoal of protesting letters, and of visits from indignant teacher-constituents, as they had to bear at the time of""— what was a little unkindly called— the Horsbrugh Bill. But this time they should stand fast. The Economist went on to give some quite cogent reasons for doing so. On that basis, and on the basis of what I propose to say next, I shall support the Measure. Now I come to the main part of what I want to say. I should like to follow the suggestion of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Mr. Powell) as to what the teachers have to work towards. They should find a great deal of sympathy in all quarters of the House for a superannuation scheme which would be non-contributory in the long run. The present system under which teachers' salaries are decided and reviewed is out of tune with the times. The whole system needs to be reconsidered. I have gone on record in my constituency, and I say for the benefit of hon. Members opposite that I have gone on record since the Election and not before it, as saying that if any section of the community is entitled to urgent reconsideration of its salary scale it is the teaching profession. Unless that profession is squarely based on these matters, future generations will suffer. I would emphasise that this point of view will continue to govern my utterances in this Chamber on these matters in future. It is a point of view for which there is just as much sympathy on this side of the House as on the Opposition side. It is futile to argue, for instance, about the Communist menace among school teachers. The right answer is to attract into our schools the sort of people we want, and then our educational system will benefit, the Communist menace will disappear, and a great deal will have been done to safeguard the future of the country. I press Her Majesty's Government, in taking this step today, to regard it as only one step on a road leading to a very necessary review of the whole system under which teachers are employed, and as leading to a very necessary reconsidera-   tion of the way in which the rewards of the teaching profession can be expanded. I attended last night the meeting at Woodford Green at which my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Sir W. Churchill) spoke, when he referred to the need for increasing technological education. There is such a need. Unless we solve this problem of how to attract into the profession the sort of people we need, he difficulty will continue to be before us. The great storm of protests that has been aroused over this extra 1 per cent. should not so much direct our attention to it: that would be to lead our attention astray. It should direct our attention to the great demands of one sort or another that have been made of the teaching profession in recent years, and to the difficulties under which the teachers have been required to carry out their duties. It is when viewed in the light of those demands and those difficulties that this I per cent. looks almost like the last straw. If we review the situation, and recognise that in reviewing the whole question of teachers' employment we shall be doing the greatest possible service to the future of this country, the House will have benefited from this debate today and the teaching profession will benefit in the future.
