gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I did not intend to take part in this Debate, but I was prompted to do so because of the remarks made by the hon. Member for South Edinburgh (Sir W. Darling). This is the first occasion on which I have had the honour of speaking in this Assembly, and so perhaps hon. Members will bear with me while I deal very briefly with one or two of the points that have been made by the last two speakers on the other side of the House. The hon. Member for South Edinburgh takes upon himself the defence of freedom. What I want to know is: of what type of freedom was he thinking? If it is the type of freedom we had in this country between the two wars, then I shall not defend that kind of freedom. I feel that my hon. Friends on this side of the House will be with me when I say that we are not prepared to defend the kind of freedom which allows the monopolists to exploit the needs of the nation by an economic scarcity, which allows the bankers to draw great tribute from the needs of the nation. Nor do we believe that the kind of freedom that we want to build in this country of ours is that by which the unemployed man has to waste his time at the labour exchanges and under which his house will be invaded by the means test man. That is not the kind of freedom on which the Socialist movement was built. The Socialist movement was built on the kind of freedom for which we stand to-day—the freedom to give every individual the right to work for the community, to have joy in working for the community and not merely for selfish interest. That is the kind of freedom for which we intend to work in this country. The country has given us a great mandate because the people believe that we are prepared and ready to put into operation a planned economy which will give to our people freedom from want and scarcity. That is precisely the underlying element in the present Bill. If we were to do what at least some of the speakers  on the other side have indicated, we would throw off this and that regulation and say to the financiers, the landowners and the industrialists, as the Government said after the last war, ""The best way to prosperity is to give enterprise a free hand, and let it go ahead."" We all know what happened. We have tragic memories of that. For a short time we had an artificial boom. Then came the inevitable depression, and, as the Home Secretary very truly said, we are not going to allow that to be repeated in this country. One of the reasons the people have returned an overwhelming majority of Socialists to this House of Commons is because they fear that kind of thing. Those of us who are back benchers and the Government intend to see that that mandate which was given to us by the country as a whole will be carried out. We must maintain those controls until such time as we will be able by our national effort to modernise industry and organise that plenty and surfeit for which we are working. We will achieve it. I have not the slightest doubt about that. We are not going to be stampeded into throwing off controls until the time arrives when it is possible to do so.
