gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The purpose of the Bill is unexceptionable. There will be widespread agreement that much still remains to be done before we can regard the present state of world currency markets as satisfactory, or can have any real confidence that the arrangement for increases in international reserves in line with anticipated and hoped for increases in world trade can be considered adequate. The world is confronted with three distinct possibilities. The first is that world trade will cease to expand. The second is that long-term arrangements can be made for regular and adequate increases in world reserves and for their distribution between countries as and when they need them. Finally, alternative arrangements can be made that would enable world trade to continue to expand but would not need reserves to expand at anything like the same rate. In other words, that the ratio of reserves to trade can be allowed to fall without adverse affects on the growth of trade. These are the choices and there are no others available. The first prospect, namely, that there can be no increase to be hoped for in world trade, we would all reject. This Bill is concerned primarily with the second set of possibilities, that of steadily increasing global reserves in line with increases in world trade. Given the present international monetary arrangements in force, it is clearly a step in the right direction. Taken in conjunction with the recent introduction of S.D.R.s it will form a useful advance. But this whole line of approach suffers from various fundamental defects. The first is that one needs every so often to go back to get international agreement for further steps to increase reserves in this way. This agreement is often hard to get and often comes very late in the day. It can often only be reached after   a period of prolonged crisis in international money markets. In the absence of a series of ad hoc arrangements of this sort the only way we have at present of increasing world reserves is either through the continuance of balance of payments deficits on the part of the reserve currency countries or through increasing the supply of newly-mined gold coming on the market for monetary purposes. It is not my purpose today to discuss the unsatisfactory nature or even the impermanence of these various sources of supply of international reserves. These matters will long have been obvious to all members of the House. I would prefer to ask the House to consider the various proposals that have been made that would enable trade to expand without the need for a concomitant increase in reserves. In this field a major and most welcome series of proposals were made earlier this week by the United States Executive Director of the I.M.F. at a meeting of the Fund's Executive Board. The American proposals involve three major reforms. First, a widening of the margins within which currencies are allowed to fluctuate either side of their fixed peg from the present 1 per cent. to the suggested 3 per cent. Secondly, the legislation of the floating of exchange rates for certain fixed and limited periods. Third, the introduction of one of the variants of the crawling peg by which freuent minor changes in a currency's parity can be introduced and which are derived from certain given formulae without the need for international supervision or permission. If we had only one of these proposals introduced we would of course be making very considerable progress. My right hon. Friend the Member for Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins) in the past has been in favour of the wider bands proposal as it is called. This undoubtedly would provide considerable relief but I have my doubts as to its long-term satisfactoryness. It would make speculation in international currencies more difficult but it would do little to make transmission from one parity to another any easier. A suggestion has been made for more flexible rates. My personal preference is for some variation of the crawling peg by which exchange parities can be  changed a little at a time according to formulae laid down in advance. This does away with the great drawback of freely floating exchange rates in that an element of certainty is involved. One knows what is going to happen. I am sure hon. Members will agree that while world trade may have difficulty in coping with change it is not really change which is the problem but uncertainty. If you know the change that is to take place and the direction in which it will take place it is perfectly possible for intelligent traders and investors to cope with those developments. My own preference is for a system which will reduce the need for international reserves but even if it does not produce a once-and-for-all solution I hope that it will largely do away with the periods of crisis and uncertainty which precede measures of the sort we are discussing. If we had had any or all of these proposals adopted we would, of course, not have solved all our problems over night. They would not emancipate Governments from the need to guard against depreciation of the internal value of their currency or from the need to follow full employment policies. As long as we have any rigidity at all in exchange rate policy there must be some conflict between the maintenance of existing exchange rate and policies of full employment. I hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to whom I extend sympathy in his present illness, will take note of these American proposals which give a very imaginative lead. We do not need them overnight and shall not get them overnight, but I hope that the House and the Government will consider them closely and favourably.
