gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My constituency has often been said to be the most typical political barometer in the country. In deference to certain hon. Members opposite, perhaps I should say ""In these countries"". It might be said that Gravesend is an opinion pollster's dream. Over the last 51 years, that constituency has regularly elected a Member to serve upon the Government benches. At the risk of sounding somewhat contentious, I must say that the Leader of the Opposition should have realised at 1.40 a.m. on Friday, 1st March that, when Gravesend fell to the Labour Party, there was no hope of maintaining a Conservative Government in office. It would be difficult for me to pay tribute to all my predecessors over the last 20 years, as did my hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, Central (Mr. Cook). My constituency is so volatile that, since the war, I am its sixth representative. But I wish to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor, Mr. Roger White, for the way in which he served the Gravesend constituents, and to his predecessor, Mr. Albert Murray, who served the constituency most conscientiously. This debate is about agriculture and prices. I cannot claim that my constituency is overwhelmingly agricultural, but I can claim that 100 per cent. of my constituents eat when they can afford to. They are concerned about prices, and not only about the price of food. They are concerned, as are the constituents of my hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, Central, about the price of housing. There are many owner-occupiers in my constituency who are trying to keep up their mortgage repayments and facing an increasing burden in that direction. Just as every other hon. Member has in his constituency, I have in mine thousands of young couples who have been priced out of the housing market altogether over the last four years. Until four or five years ago, it was possible for young couples of modest means, even in the South-East of England, to buy a house. In general, those people are now priced out of the market altogether. The situation now is such that for the many millions of young couples who want to buy their own houses, the prospect of the arrival of a family is not the joy that it should be. It is not even a minor inconvenience. It is a financial disaster. Therefore I welcome the proposals in the Gracious Speech to tackle the problem of house prices. I also hope that the Government will protect home buyers from the worst excesses of the commercial money markets. I welcome also the proposals in the Gracious Speech to deal with the problems of pensioners, because they have probably been hardest hit by rising food prices. I say that because out of their pittance of a pension they need to spend the greater proportion to keep body and soul together. Therefore I applaud the pledge to increase pensions to £10 for a single person and £16 for a married couple. But I look forward not only to the early introduction of that Bill but also to the announcement of an early date for the implementation of those increases. It is essential that we have regular reviews of pensions. But the greatest contribution that any Government can make towards helping the pensioners is to safeguard them from unnecessary price increases and to ensure that those which   occur are unavoidable. I ask the House to remember that no matter at what short intervals reviews take place, pensioners suffer an erosion of their living standard every time prices rise. I also welcome the proposals in the Gracious Speech to introduce subsidies on basic foods to cushion the impact of world prices. I fail to understand objections from Opposition Members to subsidies. I cannot understand why it is considered permissible to intervene, for example, in the public sector and to hold down the cost of telephone rentals and calls, but not considered advisable for the Government to intervene on the essential of life—food. I understand that there are objections to subsidies because they are universal and assist all members of the community irrespective of their means. I suggest that if this worries Opposition Members they should concern themselves far more with trying to ensure that this country develops a fair and redistributive tax system, so that instead of relying on selective benefits in the social services to assist the less-well-off, we can go ahead with universal benefits and ensure that those who enjoy them without perhaps needing them pay the greater contribution towards financing them. I do not think we can discuss prices—especially food prices—without talking about the Common Market. No matter what attempts were made recently to hide the effect of Common Market entry, the people of this country—and certainly those of my constituency—are fully aware of its effects upon prices. They are even more aware of the future impact of membership under the present terms. We cannot afford the burdens of ever-increasing food prices or the drain on our balance of payments which will ensue for the privilege of those higher prices. I welcome the pledge in the Gracious Speech that the Government … will seek a fundamental re-negotiation of the terms of entry to the European Economic Community. I welcome especially the use of the word ""fundamental"", because nothing short of that will satisfy the people of this country. I believe that this issue played a major part in the last election and that the people will welcome the Government's  promise to act quickly on their election manifesto, that not only will they renegotiate the terms of entry into the Common Market but that they will give the people of this country the chance that was given to the people of the Irish Republic, Denmark and Norway to say whether they wished to be members of the EEC.
