gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. I wish to thank you also for calling me by my correct name. When I took the Oath you threatened that, because of the number of hon. Members who share my surname, you would call me ""Mr. Newcastle-upon-Tyne."" I wish to say how much I have enjoyed the few weeks that I have been in the House, and I wish to thank everybody for their kindness and courtesy. To an outsider, this seems an awesome place. However, once one gets into the Chamber one is struck by the friendship shown by other hon. Members. I have the honour to represent the newish constituency of Luton, West. Luton was well represented for many years by Lord Hill, a man who was well known to this House and who served the House and his constituency well. The constituency was later represented by Mr. Charles Simeons, but I took over from Mr. Brian Sedgemore, a robust man who had some interesting opinions on the economy. His absence will leave a gap which my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will find somewhat difficult to fill. Brian Sedgemore and I share little in common in our opinions, bar the fact that we have a great love of rugby football. Indeed, to judge from the numbers  present for this debate, one regrets that there are probably not enough Members present to make up a team. Since rugby football is the peer of games, I must remind the House that Brian was a very good second-row forward, and as such he was the one who got the ball. He has now passed that ball to me. I am a fly half, I intend to accept the ball with pleasure, and I hope that I shall use it to the best of my ability to score many tries in this House and to kick many goals in the years to come. I apologise to the House for not wearing a hat, since I represent a constituency that saw the origin of such apparel. The constituency contains a great deal of interest. We have one or two large factories, including Electrolux and SKF. We have a fine hospital, which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Social Services visited last year, the Luton and Dunstable hospital, which deals with many of the terrible accidents that happen on the motorway. We also have several large modern housing estates. Probably two of the most famous parts of my constituency are the football ground, where we are hoping for some improvement—not in the ground but in the standard of play next season—and Caesar's nightclub. I recommend the club to hon. Members as they travel back to their constituencies in the North as a most humorous club offering excellent hospitality. Luton is probably not the most beautiful place in the world, but it contains genuine and hardworking people. Certainly nowhere will one find more friendly people. We have many varied cultures within the town, which bring their own problems, but I am proud to say that we have an active Conservative council, which, among other things, has reduced the rate burden in each of the past three years. It has made several internal economies. I fear a little for the economies that it may still have to make under the new regime, but I believe that it will play its full part in those economies. We also have in the constituency many industrial workers who are enjoying their retirement, some of whom are drawing Service pensions. I pay tribute to some of our larger companies, such as Vauxhall, which have been most generous to their ex-employees and provided good   facilities, excellent clubs, outings, and so so, and a very good pension scheme. We have a large number of pensioners in Luton—men and women—who, over the years, have built up the town's prosperity. They certainly deserve the attention that this House is now giving them. In the few minutes that I have at my disposal in this debate, I feel privileged to speak on behalf of those pensioners. They comprise a sector of the community which all politicians of all political persuasions have somewhat neglected over the years. When I meet them, I sometimes have a sense of shame over what has happened. Many pensioners are struggling to make ends meet. Many have fought one world war, if not two, and have made a great contribution to our nation's prosperity and pay their share of taxes. The pensioner asks for little. He asks to be left alone, for peace and for a few small comforts so that he is able to look after himself. He also seeks care. It is a small price for us to pay to these proud people if we in this House can give them some help. They do not ask for charity, and some are reluctant to receive it. I feel humble when I am shopping with my wife and see the joints of meat that pensioners are forced to buy. I also feel humble when I go into a supermarket and find that there is little choice for the pensioner, because they need only a few luxuries. Many pensioners are lonely and depressed, and anything that we can do in this House to help them will be welcomed. For that reason I sincerely applaud the Government's commitments set out in the Queen's Speech and in this debate. I applaud the fact that we intend to increase pensions by a greater percentage than Labour proposed to do if they had been returned to power. I applaud the fact that we have brought in this Christmas bonus and that we are intending to abolish the earnings rule. Pensioners should be encouraged to work if they want to do so and to take a fuller part in community life. Many hon. Members, on both sides of the House, regret that the Christmas bonus is only £10, but we must remember that it is a bonus, and better than nothing. We all know that after the bonus  began in 1972 there were two years under the Labour Government when the bonus was not paid at all. It must be galling for some pensioners at Chirstmas time to see the nation thoroughly enjoying itself when they have not enough money to pay for the price of a meal. For many of them 1979 will be the last Christmas that they will enjoy, and for several thousands there are not many Christmases left. This bonus will give them some small comfort. Christmas is a time when people want to be with their families, and with the ever-increasing cost of transport the bonus will again assist pensioners. I welcome the fact that the payment is to be permanent and that clause 4 gives the Secretary of State the power to raise the figure, if necessary. I remind the House that the bonus was first introduced by a Conservative Government. Despite the fact that the Labour Government withdrew the bonus for two years, Labour made no mention of that fact in its manifesto. One was sorry to see some of the sarcastic comments made by the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer, the right hon. Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey), on this subject. A bonus of £10 is a small price to pay from this House for a happy Christmas. I salute the courage and determination of the present Government to continue to pay the bonus so that pensioners are able to have a full share in our nation's life. I remember in the election campaign being in the centre of Luton when a little old man came up to my wife and squeezed her arm. He said ""Do not worry my dear. If there are further economies to be made to help the nation back on its feet, I will make them"" That aged gentleman could make few such economies, but he at least wanted to help the nation. There was great relief among pensioners at the return of a Conservative Government. Pensioners will welcome the fact that early in the life of the present Government we have brought this legislation before the House. Let us hope that we can continue to move forward with assistance for pensioners, and possibly to shift the emphasis which I believe has been for far too long at the wrong end of the age scale. There are Members here who will think it to their benefit as they approach the end of their parliamentary terms, but we   have a real responsibility to shift that emphasis on to the old, whose lives are almost past, rather than on to the young, who have their lives in front of them. I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for the courteous way in which you have received what I have had to say.
