gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is the custom in this House that, when a new boy rises to make his maiden speech—if I may mingle my genders—he should say with all due modesty that he requests the indulgence of the House. That is a custom to which I most gladly subscribe, and I shall need that indulgence in great measure. There is a further custom that he should also say how delighted he is to have caught your eye, Mr. Chairman. I have such a high regard for truth that I must beg to be allowed not to follow that custom. Rather am I reminded of that ancient Chinese proverb which says—if I may, with deference to hon. Members, translate it straight into the English language: Beware what request you make, lest it be granted. My feelings are not entirely unpleasant, as might easily be the case. I am very conscious that I am enjoying that anticipatory pleasure which that other idiot enjoyed when he was banging his head on a wall. He said that it would be so nice when he stopped doing it. In my profession I have fought the Inland Revenue hard for many years, and I find it a little difficult and unusual to realise that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is now on my side—at all events, we are both on the same side. Of course, we now have a very different Chancellor of the Exchequer. No-one who had the privilege of listening to the Budget speech yesterday could doubt the breadth of vision and the wide sweep of the present Chancellor. We can, for example, boil and freeze, completely freed from Purchase Tax. Is it open to anyone to doubt any longer that my right hon. Friend is full of the milk of human kindness? I would go further. Is it not plain to every hon. Member that my right hon. Friend takes most practical steps to replenish that store as often as occasion arises? In those circumstances I beg to offer one or two very ordinary suggestions and remarks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The first point with which I want to deal is that of the unearned income relief. As I sat listening to the very lucid speech of my right hon. Friend yesterday, I was astonished to find that the logic of his argument, as it appeared to me, was not carried to the full. I am referring, of course, to post war credits, which I have   always understood to be in the form of an enforced loan—a very suitable measure—from the taxpayer. It was a system by which the Revenue said to the taxpayer: ""You pay what you should pay, and in addition you pay a little more, which we shall return to you in due course."" The calculation of the amount of that post-war credit, as hon. Members will be aware, is shown quite clearly on the back of each post-war credit certificate. Everybody will know that the first item in calculating post-war credits is the difference between earned income relief at the pre-1941–2 rate and the earned income relief at the rate calculated on that form. The logic of the situation, as it appeared to me, was that if one is getting back to what the Chancellor was good enough to call pre-war allowances, but which the post-war credit certificate only refers to as the ""pre-1941–2 allowances,"" one should do more than deal with personal allowances; one should also deal with earned income relief, or one is not entirely completing the logical argument. I say with all deference that the earned income allowance should have been brought back to, at least, the rate of one-sixth at which it stood before the post war credits started or, if one is going to the pre-war rate, it should have come back, so far as my recollection goes, to one-fifth. If I am not exceeding the bounds of controversy, or of the caution which members of my profession use in certifying figures, I think it is right to say that one-fifth is approximately twice one-tenth. That is purely a mathematical calculation, but it did seem to me that it was good Socialism that one should distinguish, especially to-day, between earned income and unearned income. I am, therefore, asking the Chancellor to be good enough to give this matter further thought. It is not a case, as I can well appreciate, of there being an opportunity to deal with this matter in the next Budget, inasmuch as Pay-as-you-earn will have to be re-coded and recalculated between now and next April, and anything which affects earned income relief, will have to be dealt with now, and not in the next Budget, if it is to have effect prior to 1947–48. I imagine—I know—that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has taken steps to cover the whole orbit of taxation and I imagine that he has  considered the position in relation to earned income relief. No doubt he has also considered the position of the old-age pensioner and people in that category who rely upon a small amount of unearned income. In the age allowance, account is taken of that of course, but it did seem to me that I might, with deference, ask the Chancellor to be good enough to look into that point once more. The next point on which I wish to touch is the much debated point of Excess Profits Tax. I have only one small suggestion to put to the Chancellor with regard to it, and that is that he should abolish it altogether, for two reasons. In the first place, again the logic of the situation impresses itself upon me. The Excess Profits Tax was described by the Chancellor himself as an appropriate tax for a short war. It has now got to the stage where it ceases very largely to appear to be equitable so far as the taxpayer is concerned. I am quite sure that it is not beyond the ability of the Chancellor and his advisers to devise a tax which would be equitable, will appear to the taxpayer to be equitable, and will produce to the Revenue the same amount that Excess Profits Tax would be likely to produce in future without any difficulty whatsoever. The second reason why I was disappointed not to hear that E.P.T. is to be removed is that I imagine, from my limited experience, that it will be the sort of tax which will produce very little in the immediate future because of the tremendous reduction of war contracts and war profits. I do, of course, realise that the Treasury has information which is far in excess of that which the ordinary citizen can come by, but perhaps, dealing with the accounts of businesses, I do get at that level information a little earlier than it reaches the Revenue who, after all, only get the answer when the balance sheet reaches the Inspector of Taxes. Then there is the matter of deficiencies. The Chancellor was good enough to give to businessmen of every grade of morality a very full warning that he was going to continue to allow deficiencies to be taken into account as long ahead as 31st December, 1946. He was thus inviting businessment of every grade of morality, to protect themselves as they might think fit. When I saw it reported in one newspaper to-day—or rather misreported—that the Chancellor was referring to ""efficiency""   payments, I am not sure that it was misreporting but rather the cynicism of the reporter. The next point I would like to touch on in regard to this tax is the refund of 20 per cent. It has already been mentioned that it will be extremely difficult to arrange this refund in the desirable manner. This is a case where, I think, if I were on the other side I should have the better end of the stick than the Chancellor or the Revenue. I hope, therefore, that, irrespective of what measure is designed in the Finance Act, the Chancellor will make it perfectly plain that, repugnant as dealing with taxation retrospectively is to the sense of fairness of every Member, he will, if there is any substantial measure of avoiding the intentions and spirit of the refund, introduce retrospective legislation to put the matter right in accordance with what is intended on all sides of the Committee. It might not be inappropriate at this moment to refer the Chancellor, when he deals with the business world, as he will have to do in the near future, to the rules of the road as they appear in the central police station in Tokio. They are in English, or, at any rate, in the English which can only be found in the central police station in Tokio. One of the rules reads: When a passenger of the foot heave in sight, tootle the horn; trumpet at him melodiously at first, but if he still obstacles your passage, tootle him with vigour. That seems to me not entirely inappropriate. The terminal payments in connection with the cancellation of war contracts is a matter which, I imagine, concerns the spending Departments more closely than the Chancellor, but it is a matter in which he is deeply interested. I hope he will take great care to see that his view is clearly expressed to the spending Departments that the claims for cancellation of contracts should be examined with scrupulous care. It is extraordinary to find, as soon as a contract is cancelled, how completely valueless the partly manufactured articles are made to appear, in spite of the fact that an enormous value in labour and material has gone into them. If I may make a small suggestion, it is that payments on account should be made for the time being to give the contractor the opportunity of carrying on with his business, but that no final pay-  ments should be made until the machinery which already exists is used to the full, to make sure that there has been no excess spending of the nation's money on this purpose. That is all I have to say about the Budget, but I would like to crave your special indulgence to make a personal statement. This House means a tremendous amount to me. It signifies freedom and it signifies all those things for which the Armed Forces have been fighting. As one who was not called upon to fight in His Majesty's Forces I appreciate the service and sacrifice they have made so that freedom could live and so that it could be possible for an ordinary citizen like myself to get up and address the Chancellor at such close quarters. For those who have come back, I hope that I shall never be found lacking in energy to pursue their just causes. For those who unfortunately will not return, I hope that I may do my share in seeing that it may be truthfully said of them that they fought in the last of the wars.
