gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That this House urges Her Majesty's Government, following the completion of its current review of regional industrial policy, to adopt a radical approach in its policies towards the regions, so as to effect a reversal in the drift to and concentration of resources in the South and South East of the country; and in particular to take account of the long term future of the textile industry which forms a substantial, vital and traditional part of the manufacturing base in the Yorkshire and Humberside Region. I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. Until this time last week, when my hon. Friend the Member for Broxbourne (Mrs. Roe) eloquently moved a motion on the police, no new Member had made a maiden speech on a balloted motion since 1959. In that year my distinguished predecessor, Mr. David Ginsburg, was first elected as the Member for Dewsbury borough constituency. For 22 years as a member of the Labour party, and for a further two years as a member of the Social Democratic party, David Ginsburg ably served the electors of Dewsbury, 68 per cent. of whom now form part of the new Dewsbury county constituency that I have the privilege to represent. The remaining parts of my constituency comprise the wards of Denby Dale—famous to some hon. Members for its pies—which was formerly part of the Colne Valley constituency, and the ward of Kirkburton, which is part of the old Huddersfield, East constituency. I pay tribute to the hon. Members for Colne Valley (Mr. Wainwright) and for Huddersfield (Mr. Sheerman), both of whom have entrusted to me part of their former constituencies. I assure both hon. Gentlemen and also Mr. Ginsburg that I will do my best to follow the excellent examples that they have set in looking after the interests of the constituents of the new Dewsbury county constituency. My constituency lies in the heart of what used to be called the heavy woollen district. It is also on the western edge of the Yorkshire coalfields. The evidence of the decline of the textile and coal mining industries in that part of Yorkshire is shown by the many proud, but now empty, stone-built multi-storey mills and the scars in the landscape left by the worked-out pits, such as those at Thornhill, Shuttleye, Skelmenthorpe and Shawcross. When the Yorkshire mills were built they expressed the rugged determination and independence that is part of the Yorkshire character. The mills that are now unoccupied—and there are many—stand out like proud tombstones in an old graveyard. By contrast, the pitheads have largely been demolished, but no amount of landscaping and grassing over of the spoil heaps can disguise the scars in the landscape that coal mining always leaves behind. While the coal industry had tended to move out of my constituency in an easterly direction in search of more profitable and easily worked seams, the textile industry continues to play a major role and still forms a substantial part of the manufacturing base of the region. In 1982, the textile and clothing industries nationally still provided one in ten of all jobs in manufacturing industry. However, the number of jobs in textiles alone fell from 597,000 in June 1972 to 306,000 in December 1982. A further loss of 130,000 to 150,000 jobs is predicted by 1988. Notwithstanding this decline, the textile and clothing industries continue to play a major part in the  national economy, having contributed some £3·25 billion in added value in 1981. That is twice as much as the aerospace industry; two and a half times as much as the iron and steel industry; and six times as much as the computer industry. Those facts give some indication of the heavy responsibilities that I am to bear on behalf of the Dewsbury constituency during this Parliament. My constituents know that decades of support by them for the Labour party and Socialism have not in any way arrested the decline of their traditional local industries of textile manufacturing, mining and engineering. Nor has their loyalty closed the gap that still exists in so many facets between the north and the south. They have turned to the Conservative party because they know from bitter experience that Socialism has failed them and they hope and believe that the policies of the Conservative Government, which appeal to their basic Yorkshire sense of what is right, will eventually bring them the benefits that the Labour party has so often promised but failed to deliver. If ever there was an act of faith in the policies of the present Government it took place on 9 June this year when a broad blue band was painted on the political map of industrial Yorkshire, stretching from Keighley through Halifax, Bradford and Calder Valley, to Spenborough, Batley and into my constituency of Dewsbury. It has long been the claim of Opposition Members that there was a line drawn across the country dividing the soft Tory south from the industrial heartlands of the midlands and the north. One side of this line, they said, was always blue and the other side always red. More recently, such hon. Members, faced with the complete rejection of their policies by the electorate, have sought to find sympathy for their views from those self-appointed guardians of the social conscience on the Conservative Benches who have warned about the dangers of creating two nations. I have not been elected as the first ever Tory Member for Dewsbury to dismiss all this talk of two nations as a load of nonsense. While I find it somewhat strange that those right hon. and hon. Members in my party who talk about the dangers of dividing our society between the haves and the have-nots represent constituencies in the south, I am bound to agree that the dangers of which they speak are real. In Dewsbury, the expression ""one nation"" is best avoided. Unemployment is high and prospects are grim. my constituents are not directly concerned with the Falklands, with hanging, with defence, or even with Members' pay. Mostly they are concerned with housing, feeding and clothing their families. Most of them do not object to being told to stand on their own two feet—that is what they wish to do—but the reality is that they look to the Government to create the right circumstances and the practical help to do so. Tradition dies hard in Yorkshire. The man of the house is still expected to be the breadwinner and, more important, he expects this of himself. What effect does a prolonged period of unemployment have on his pride and his ability to care for, love, lead and direct his family? We must simply offer him more than hope. People have lived on hope for too long. It is no use my telling the disillusioned breadwinners in my constituency that more than one third of all direct United States investment in manufacturing industry in the EC is concentrated as it is in the United Kingdom. If I did, I would quickly be told to go and represent the people of Reading, Slough,   Swindon and all those prosperous parts of the country which I understand property people refer to as the golden triangle. If there are great opportunities in the high technological areas, I fear that Dewsbury and many similar places will be unlikely to benefit from them. The statistics show that the percentage of electronics in total manfacturing employment in Yorkshire and the Humberside region is only 1·5 compared with more than 12 in the south-east. The plain fact is that, although successive United Kingdom Governments have introduced a wide range of incentives for British industry to employ new technology, most of these incentives appear to have been taken up in the south-east of England along the M4 corridor between London and Bristol. I have referred to Dewsbury and the Yorkshire region on many occasions, because I am aware of the special problems of those areas, but there are, of course, many Dewsburys in the country. Do the Government have the will and the determination to revitalise all these Dewsburys? I warn the House that, without such determination, we shall never have one nation. I also warn the Government that we do not have much time. The previous Conservative Administration were rightly proud of the reduction that they achieved in tae rate of inflation. However, the principal mechanism in achieving this reduction—high interest rates over a long period allied with the resulting strength of the pound—meant that manufacturing industry and particularly the textile industry had to pay an extremely high price. Most of us have been taking the same medicine, but my constituents in Dewsbury have been taking larger doses of it than many. Virtually the whole consequential impact of Government policies to reduce the rate of inflation, which I entirely support, have, however, fallen on manufacturing industry through pressures on working capital and investment and the adverse effects of the strength of sterling on imports and exports. Those sectors which escaped were the service industries, which are much less exposed to international competition, and the public utilities themselves which usually have a monopoly and can increase their prices to earn the return on capital set for them by Government. So, inevitably, there has been a serious contraction of our national manufacturing base, particularly in the textile industry, and much capacity has been lost. On the positive side, however, the remaining capacity has the potential for a marked improvement in manufacturing efficiency and profitability. Confidence is now the key to its survival through the current period of adversity and to recovery beyond it. It is essential, therefore, that the Government should now be firmly committed to supporting a strong and efficient manufacturing sector and to be seen to be so committed. However, since we became members of the EC, it is easy to see that the nearer one is to the English channel, the more one will benefit. My hon. Friends from the north-east, the north-west and Scotland will be well aware of the problem. I said earlier that we in Britain receive a much bigger share of American investment than our EC partners. This is not, however, the result of some special regional policy but simply because we alone in the EC speak almost the same language as the Americans, which helps them to tackle the whole EC market from here. It is also because many Americans have a great affinity with this country.  However, it would be foolish to believe that, in present circumstances, American investors can be persuaded to prefer Dewsbury to Dorking or Sheffield to Swindon. The world economy, as with our own economy, will have to improve enormously for the Dewsburys of this country to benefit from EC or other foreign investment. Unless radical steps are taken, there will need to be a shortage of labour and land before any genuine improvement comes to our declining regions. There is not time this morning to go into the issue of the rating of industrial property, but I make the point that the current rating valuations, which are based on rental values, are 10 years out of date. A revaluation is a necessity if reality is to be restored to the rating of industrial property and such a revaluation would, I am sure, show that the real weight of property values lies in the south. It would also show that much of the north's industrial property stock was unsaleable and unlettable. It is a sorry fact that the present regional incentives, whether they arise from locationns in enterprise zones, intermediate areas, development areas or special development areas, make little difference at the end of the day to the decision to set up a major new manufacturing plant. Furthermore, regional grants are as likely to cause distortion, not to say unfair competition in the market place, as they are to achieve their primary objective of stimulating growth in the disadvantaged regions of Britain. Two examples will suffice to illustrate this. A successful yarn spinner in Dewsbury who has survived the worst of the recession and is anxious and able to compete with anyone in the world suddenly finds himself subject to unfair competition. Such competition does not come from Taiwan, south Korea or any undeveloped, low labour cost part of the world. It comes from Kilmarnock, where one of his principal competitors, a well known group of textile companies based in Bradford, happens to find that it has a run-down yarn-spinning subsidiary. Because this subsidiary is located in Kilmarnock, it can obtain the benefit of substantial Government grants to modernise its plant and machinery and go out into the market place and compete successfully, which it could not do previously, with my constituent. It has obtained substantial grants from Government not because of need—its parent company admits to having £30 million in the bank—but because it happens to be in Kilmarnock. The yarn spinner in my constituency can see no real distinction between this situation and having to cope with cheaply produced Third world products which are dumped here. My other example of distortion created by grants concerns another company based in the Yorkshire and Humberside region. The company is engaged in the rendering of waste animal material, the end products of which are meat, bone meal and tallow. It applied to the EC for a FEOGA grant to modernise one of its rendering plants. The plant in question received a substantial part of its raw material from a farmers' co-operative-owned abattoir in the same region. However, the application was unsuccessful principally because, it was told, its activities were not sufficiently close to the food industry, which was intended to be the main beneficiary of such grants. The farmers' co-operative, however, managed to obtain such a grant for the complete refurbishment of its abattoir and—this is the important point—the addition to it of a new rendering plant sufficient to process more than double the quantity of animal waste material which became   available from its own activities. As a result, the rendering company not only lost a valuable supplier of raw material to its own plant, but is now having to compete with that same supplier for the remaining material in the region, and not even on equal terms because one half of the costs of the competing plant has been funded by the EC. One is drawn increasingly to the conclusion that the whole system of zones, intermediate areas, development areas and special development areas tends to amount to sticking plasters on sore spots wherever they arise and wherever the pressure groups press hardest. I appreciate, of course, that it will be possible for hon. Members to point to success stories and areas which would be even more deprived than they are were it not for these palliative measures. The Government's current review of regional development policy will, no doubt, come to its own conclusion on which the Government may or may not take action. The purpose of my motion is to urge the Government in any event to look much more deeply into the serious situation which confronts the nation, for there is a growing and apparently accelerating trend for the regions to become poorer, with the exception of those in the south and south-east, which are becoming richer. Never was it more important than now for the Government, having been returned to power with such a nationally representative number of Members of Parliament, to take radical steps to reverse this divisive trend. First, steps should be taken in relation to the textile industry, a vital part of our national economy, the manufacturing base of which should not be allowed to decline further. Textile manufacturers have been beset by a battery of problems, but principally the declining competitiveness which has been caused by the high sterling exchange rate and the unfair, and often illegal, sectoral aids which our EC partners, particularly those in Belgium, Italy and France, have given to their indigenous industries. For example, the Italian man-made fibre industry has been subsidised and refinanced over the past seven years to an extent which has allowed it to remain in business despite continuous losses which in some years have been in excess of 50 per cent. of turnover. Total subsidies are estimated in Italy to have amounted to £1½ billion over the period, making it impossible for even the most efficient free enterprise organisation to compete. It is clearly the responsibility of the Government to insist that the Commission should act to prevent these abuses of its rules. No such sectoral aids exist in the United Kingdom, and regional aids to the textile, clothing and footwear industries are very small. As I mentioned earlier, the industry has suffered more than most. That part of it which has survived is fitter and leaner than ever before and is poised to take full advantage of any increased demand. But it requires confidence to continue to invest and keep up to date with modern technology. The British Textile Confederation in March of this year put forward a plan for action which I strongly urge the Government to adopt. Under the plan, a system of interest stabilisation and abatement would apply for five years in relation to all investment in the industry. It would take the form of a direct grant, effectively reducing the rate of interest payable by those making investment to a constant  figure of 5 per cent. It would apply to existing programmes of investment from the day appointed for the implementation of the scheme. Companies financing investment from their own resources would receive a cash grant equivalent to the interest abatement. There would, however, be no retrospective element for expenditure already made. Capital required would continue to have to be raised commercially and there would be no call on Government for capital loans or payments other than those already available under the Industry Act provisions and other existing aid programmes. This new aid would, therefore, be restricted in effect to companies which are viable or potentially viable and which, with the advantage of interest abatement, can attract investment funding from commercial sources or from their own resources. The cost of the scheme to the state would be reduced as interest rates fell. The plan also recommends that additional compensation for redundancy would be provided by the Government for five years and that there should be added to the minimum basic payment an amount based on service and age. It is unfortunately on inescapable fact that the greater efficiency and productivity required and adopted by the industry has inevitably led to contraction in employment. It is inequitable and demonstrably unfair if textile employees who are made redundant are treated less favourably than workers in other industries receiving Government aid for restructuring and modernisation. Recent experience has been that for many displaced people in the textile industry, statutory redundancy payments have been the limit because of the depressed profitability of the industry. It is yet another example of those who work in the private sector suffering by comparison with those who work in the public sector. The plan also provides that for a guaranteed period of not less than three years, the level of support for all forms of research and development in the textile industry should be considerably increased. The substantial pressure on profitability in the industry has meant that the trend of investment in research and innovation has been downward rather than upward, and the assistance for research and the application of microprocessor techniques has not been taken up by the industry to the full extent that is available. On the subject of education, the contraction of the industry—
