gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope the House will bear with me in this my first speech in the Chamber. I have just returned from a visit to my constituency, and while I was there, although I did not meet any man who had a residence in Blackpool, I met many who had  spent a few days there, and I am very proud to say I represent those people in this House. While I was in my constituency I was surprised to find that the interest of the people in political matters was growing. There was a growing understanding of political problems and, what is more, a growing understanding of the difficulties of the Government. Whatever hon. Members opposite may say, I am convinced that the great majority of the people in this country have complete confidence in the Government. It is rather strange to hear the protestations of hon. Members opposite, and to see their sudden interest in the welfare of ex-Service men, especially when one considers the history of the last 25 years in that regard. During that time the ex-Service man has had to rely on charity. I am confident that whatever this Government may do it will not leave the ex-Service man to rely on flag days for his welfare. Though I want to make one or two small criticisms of the Government's demobilisation scheme, I should like to do so in the same spirit as another hon. Member, namely, in a spirit of family criticism, because I am confident that the Government will give every consideration to any criticisms which may be raised tonight. I should like first to mention Class B releases. We have been told, and I agree, that building is the first priority in the Government's policy and that the chief bottleneck in the building programme is man-power. Building trade workers are not coming out of the Services quickly enough. I have in my hand a sheaf of correspondence which I have received from my constituents—some 30 or 40 letters—within the last few weeks. If I send these letters to the Ministry of Works I get the reply that it is ""not their pigeon"" and that I should have sent them to the Secretary of State for War. If I send them to the War Office I am told it is not their pigeon, and that I should send them to the Ministry of Works. I suggest to the Government that in future when any constituent writes to a Member and the Member, after going through the letter, takes it up to the Ministry, the Ministry should give personal consideration to it. As building is a class 1 priority I would suggest that the B scheme should be extended. As a Service man myself I am confident that there is no one in the Services who would object to seeing comrades going home ahead of them if they   knew they were going home to provide the houses which they will need when they are demobilised. Therefore, I urge upon the Government that this question of B releases should be reconsidered. Whatever number of men the Minister of Health requires, he should get that number immediately. The second point I want to raise is that there is a feeling in the Army that men are being hidden away. In saying that, I do not wish to cast any reflection on any individual officer, but under the present system rank is based on establishment. If the establishment—that is the number of men in a unit—falls, the rank falls. It is only natural that under a system such as hon. Members opposite advocate, in which everyone is out for his own interests, officers should try to retain as high a rank as possible, because as a result they retain a higher wage. The present system of promotion based on establishment encourages officers to retain as many men under them as possible. There is an old Army game which I, as a Serviceman, have played along with many others, of hoodwinking your superior officer about how busy you are and what an important man you are. I should therefore suggest to the Minister of War that he immediately takes a census of Army strength to find out where the men are. There are many ways of hiding personnel within the Army. I myself can speak with experience. Before I went overseas, and after I went overseas, I was attached to a reinforcement holding unit with not one or two but some 60 other officers, including technicians such as engineers, medical officers and dental officers like myself. For six months I did not do a stroke of work—from July, 1944, until January, 1945. That was under the Government in which the majority of hon. Members opposite served. It was not the Labour Government. That is the type of thing which happens in the Army at the present time. For six months some 60 officers in the unit to which I belonged did nothing, we were unemployed, and I am not convinced that the position has been altered considerably since that time. The present Government have been in office for only three months, and anybody who knows anything about Army organisation, cannot expect them in that time to eradicate that inefficiency,  based on Conservatism, which has lasted so long. I hope there will be a change in the near future. With regard to transport, which has been referred to a great deal in the Debate, I want to raise two points. First, there has been a big outcry in the Press recently about the English wives of American soldiers being sent home. I hope the Government will not consider lending any ships to either Canada or America until every English soldier due for release has been sent home. The second and more important point is this. In numerous letters which I have received recently I have been told that one of the bottlenecks in the transport system from the Far East is the lack of transcontinental transport between the South of France and the North of France. I believe the train service between the South and the North is entirely inadequate. There is, for instance, only one train a day from Toulon to Calais. My hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Air has told us that that is adequate, but my information is the exact opposite. I believe that if that train service were increased we could speed up the number of men coming home from the East. It has been suggested during the Debate that the men in the factories have had preference over the men in the Services in demobilisation. During the last few weeks various soldiers have told me that the factory worker has been having all the advantage. I want to point out, first of all, that the men in the factories have been in the front line in this war just as much as the men in the Army, and were, indeed, more so during the blitz in 1940 and 1941. I know there are certain elements in this House and in the country who desire to split the great mass of the workers from the Servicemen, but from my experience, both as a soldier and as a representative of an industrial constituency, I am convinced that the men in the factories and the men in the Forces think alike. It should also be said in this House that the men in the factories have done a good job in looking after the interests of the men in the Forces; through the trade unions they have safeguarded the standard of living of the great mass of the workers, and when the men in the Forces come back they will come back to a standard of living which has been defended for them by the men in the   factories. The interests of the men in the factories and the men in the Army are the same. It was suggested by the hon. Member for Anglesey (Lady Megan Lloyd George) that the record of the Government on demobilisation is not as good as the record of the Government after the last war. I agree that there were perhaps more men demobilised immediately after the last war than after this war, but what was the result? I do not say that there was unemployment, but the result of suddenly throwing large numbers of men on to the labour market was that labour became cheaper and the wages of the workers fell. I am glad that mistake is not being made after this war. There is one over-riding factor which influences demobilisation. It is the condition of Europe and the Far East. Hon. Members on this side have been accused time and again of being internationalists, and hon. Members opposite have told us that Germany and the ex-enemy countries must be kept down. I suggest that the only way in which we can get our men out of the Forces is by applying the principles of internationalism to which we adhere, to the problem of Europe. It is only by encouraging the peoples of the Continent, including Germany and Italy, to come back into the comity of nations that we can release our men and bring them back into civilian life. It is only by the rebirth of democratic methods in Germany that our men can be released. It will be a great contribution if we can bring back, to help in the reconstruction of a new life in this country, a large number of men and women of this nation who are at present walking around Germany witnessing havoc and devastation. In regard to that policy, I have every confidence in the Government. I have every confidence that the Government will tackle the problem of reconstruction in Europe in such a way that, within a very short period, the great mass of the men and women of this country who are at present in the Forces will be back among us helping with the problems of reconstruction.
