gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy-Speaker, this is my maiden speech. In making it, I ask the House to be kind to me. I shall, in accordance with tradition, endeavour to be non-controversial, and if I unwittingly err I hope to be forgiven. I have approached this occasion with diffidence, but am comforted by the thought that all hon. and right hon. Gentlemen have faced a similar ordeal and have survived. Before I came to this House I was a schoolmaster. I feel very much the new boy in a new school, with almost everything to learn. Because of my experience in schools and my knowledge of working with children in a variety of schools and a variety of districts, from mining villages to urban areas and back to a country village, I have learned the value of good homes and good houses. A good house is not necessarily a good home, but it helps considerably. Housing is not only a problem of bricks and mortar, materials and labour, but is essentially a human problem, with men, women and children as its raw material. In schools and classrooms I have seen children unable, because of the home they lived in, in a slum, to benefit by what the schools were able to offer them. I have seen children in schools, and have listened to their talk in playgrounds, who were old beyond their years because of what they had seen and heard in the house in   which they lived, in a slum. Because of those things I welcome the concentrated attack on slums which will take place as the result of the Bill. There are 13 million permanent houses in England and Wales. Out of those, 847,000, or 6½ per cent., are designated as unfit to live in and are due for demolition. I represent the division of Burton, in Staffordshire, and against the background of the national figure I should like to deal with the figure which applies in my own division. Many people associate Burton with beer. But Burton is not only famous for beer. Besides the Borough of Burton, we have the extremely busy market town of Uttoxeter, with its racecourse and its busy Smithfield market, and in between the two there is a wide expanse of agricultural land with a great many people living in an agricultural community. Burton is synonomous with other things besides beer—its Hanbury alabaster, its world-famous Tutbury glass, and its numerous light industries. Let us consider slum clearance in this widely varied division. In the borough itself the figure is only 1·7 per cent. In Burton, there is no clearance area specified by the authorities. This is a tribute to the work of the city fathers in the past and to the people who own and live in the houses. In the whole of the division the figure is 2·8. Therefore, against the general background of slum clearance Burton stands very well. Within five years there ought not to be a single slum in the Burton division. This Bill provides an incentive to clear the slums, and it therefore puts heart into the older parts of many of our towns. It would be criminal folly to continue increasing the sprawl of new housing estates over good farming land while town centres are allowed to decay. I welcome Clause 4 (1), which enables the Minister to increase by £9 the general needs subsidy of £10 in respect of dwellings provided for the agricultural population. It has been said that slums are not built, but made. In our future policy we should encourage the right type of people and stop the exploitation of big houses which are not in themselves slums, but which can soon be made into slums by crowding people into them. I should like humbly to make two constructive suggestions to my right hon.  Friend. I think we should be very careful when dealing with compensation in connection with the demolition of slum property. There are various types of houses scheduled as fit for demolition. I know one, a cottage, which was bought by a person who did not know that a demolition order was soon to be made against it. Is that person to be given site value? I know of an old couple who bought a house in the country many years ago. It is now scheduled for demolition. They bought it with their savings and they are now living on their pension. Are they to be given site value? If local authorities all over the country acknowledge the principle of differential rents, I suggest to my right hon. Friend that in all conscience we can also accept the principle of differential compensation for varied types of slum property. I have one other suggestion. It is a plea for the old folk. Those of us who have worked on local authorities know that all sorts of ideas for housing old people are propagated. Some people urge that they should be put into groups of houses, together. Others urge that they should be spread out over the estates. We should consider whether the bungalow type or the terrace type of house is the most suitable. As there is a special subsidy for slum clearance and for agricultural houses, so I suggest that my right hon. Friend should consider granting a special subsidy for the erection of houses to accommodate old people. Our aim in building should be a separate home for each family. In conclusion—and I hope hon. Members do not think that this is an ominous sign, bearing in mind Mr. Speaker's remarks about that phrase—I hope that this proposal will soon be realised. I thank the House for its indulgence.
