gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for being called upon what is one of the most important days in the parliamentary year. I listened to the hon. Member for Gateshead, West (Mr. Horam) with perhaps less attention than I would on other occasions because in my mind there was the possibility that I would be able to catch your eye. None the less, I listened to his speech as much as I was able. Since this is my first opportunity to address the House I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Brian Harrison, who served in this House for nearly 20 years and who has a fine record of public service to his constituents and to this House. He will in particular be remembered for his great efforts in encouraging better relations with the Commonwealth and for his interest in Community matters. I know that he will be continuing this work outside the House and I feel sure that his many friends inside and outside the House will want to join me in wishing him all success and happiness in his new activities. In a way I have two predecessors—Brian Harrison for the northern part of my constituency and my hon. Friend the Member for Essex, South-East (Sir Bernard Braine) for the southern half. As my hon. Friend is very much with us in this House it would be impertinent of me to say anything about him except that on occasions I shall be giving him support in his proposals for stopping the development of Maplin—an issue of great concern to our constituents. I hope that the Government will reach a speedy conclusion on this project. My constituency is at once unique and typical. It is unique in that it is the only constituency in the country in which it is impossible to cross from the northern to the southern part without either getting one's feet wet or going through two other constituencies. My constituency is divided from east to west by the River Crouch. We have no bridge across that river throughout the length and breadth of the constituency. It is typical of many other constituencies in that at first sight it appears to be a mainly agricultural constituency. Farming is certainly an important industry there. We have some of the finest farmers in the country. There is also a considerable amount of light industry and a large number of commuters travel daily into Liverpool Street. The principal town in the north of my constituency is Maldon which remembers very well the visit of Her Majesty in 1971 when we celebrated the 800th anniversary of the granting of our Charter in 1171. The principal town in the south is Rochford, which has also Royal associations in that it was the home of Anne Boleyn for the greater   part of her childhood. Most hon. Members know what happened to her. In Maldon we have the sort of problems that are to be expected. The vast majority of my constituents are not represented by the trade unions. The CBI does not consult them frequently on day-to-day problems. To a large extent they rely on their own efforts to improve their standard of living and upon the Government to see that they get a fair deal. This is my first speech and I gather that the convention is that I should be noncontroversial in what I have to say. As we have just had a Budget Statement and no doubt everyone is busy thinking of the finer implications I want to make two suggestions, neither of which is particularly controversial in a political sense which I think will be of help to my constituents. By profession I am a practising chartered accountant. My suggestions, if adopted, will not enhance the income of myself or my fellow practising accountants. Indeed, I hope that they will substantially reduce it over the years. I refer to the issue of tax simplification. I hope that the Chancellor will continue the work of my right hon. Friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale (Mr. Barber) who made such great steps in reforming the tax system during the past two years. Urgent steps must be taken to reform our system of personal taxation. I would like to see us reach the point when a reasonably educated man would be able, without a great deal of difficulty, to work out his personal tax liability using a simple system of self-assessment. There is nothing particularly difficult or complicated about this. It is done in many parts of the world. It requires a new set of forms and greater use of computers. It also requires —and here there may be additional work for my profession—a comprehensive system of auditing assessments. The corollary is that there should also be higher penalties for those who evade paying taxes. There is certainly room for improvement in our system of collecting personal taxation. Secondly, I remind the Chancellor that in framing his new tax legislation his principle responsibility is to ensure that the 999 honest people who wish to discharge their liabilities are able to do so  easily and efficiently. I agree that he has also to frame his legislation in such a way that the few people who are dishonest are caught by the system. There is a danger that the Inland Revenue, in its natural desire to close loopholes in the tax system, is tempted to make the legislation so complicated that ordinary people find it difficult to know—and professional advisers find it difficult to advise them—exactly where they stand with the legislation. We shall obviously have some more complicated legislation to put into effect the proposals that have been made today. I welcome the proposal to publish a wealth tax Green Paper. That will enable hon. Members and professional people to have the opportunity of making comments and suggestions on the machinery of the tax. The Chancellor's main responsibility is to try to ease the lot of the vast majority of people who want to discharge their liabilities, however onerous. I hope, therefore, that the work on tax reform and improving our system of tax collection will continue under this Government as it did under the previous administration.
