gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the House for its indulgence on rising at this late hour to make a maiden speech on such an important subject, and after such expert testimony as we have been listening to for some hours past. My only reason for intervening in this Debate is that I feel this matter is of such importance that every hon. Member ought to make some contribution either by speech or by vote to the discussion—a discussion which, as has been said, may well affect the well being of future generations of our people. In those circum stances, I am rather surprised that hon. Members opposite, belonging to a great party, should have decided to sit on the fence. I may be excused for saying such a thing in a maiden speech, but that is how it appears to me. Having listened to the arguments and studied the documents, I find that I am left with two propositions on this subject. One is: Is the loan necessary? And the other is: Is there any conceivable alter native? So far as the necessity of the loan is concerned, I am very glad to follow the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. Two things are obvious from a study of the figures in the statistical document, which I hope all Members will read—what our position was in the years immediately preceding the war, and what happened to us in the years of the war. Having regard to the material damage which has been done to the industrial life of this country and the  wastage of our resources, it is clear that unjess we have this loan, or unless there is some feasible alternative, our people are in for a considerable spell of con tinued austerity, possibly even greater than that which they had to endure during the war, because, at least, then we had the benefit of Lend-Lease. I do not believe that our people ought to endure a continued spell of extreme austerity, nor do I believe that they would willingly tolerate it. I think it is the duty of His Majesty's Government, and of everybody who can play any part in it, to spare our people as much as possible of this continued austerity. That, of course, is the purpose of this loan. I have listened eagerly to the opponents of the Motion for an alter native, but, so far as I can gather, there is only one, which was enunciated most clearly by the hon. Member for East Aberdeen (Mr. Boothby). It is that either this country alone, or this country together with the remainder of the sterling bloc, shall endeavour to stand up against the United States, and enter into some kind of economic warfare with them. That may be putting it crudely, but that is what it boils down to. What would happen if the alternative were accepted? Suppose that we, either individually or as part of the sterling bloc, oppose our selves to the United States in the world markets. I suggest that the first and obvious consequences would be a sharp decline in our standard of living. We should, at one stroke, cut ourselves off from a very large source of essential supplies—not only foodstuffs and cigarettes—such as those which the hon. Member for East Aberdeen so dramatically produced from his pocket as a conjurer produces a rabbit out of his hat. We should be cutting ourselves off also from essential raw materials. In our present position as a country which has suffered the ravages of war to a greater extent than our Allies on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, what chance should we have against that country with its undamaged productive resources, which have actually increased during the war by something like 50 per cent.? I believe we should be.fore doomed to lose. What chance is there of a world of peace in the future if we are to embark in the immediate postwar   months, on an economic struggle against the country which was our Ally during the greater part of the war years. I am compelled by the facts, as I believe the majority of Members of this House are compelled by the facts, to accept the loan as something to which no effective practical alternative has been posed. There has been criticism of the terms of the loan. I would like to echo what my right hon. Friend the Chancellor said about the interest, although I agree with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the interest terms are perhaps not so important as one might think. But it would have been a decent gesture on the part of the United States to recognise the paramount contribution which the good people of this country made to the winning of the war, particularly during the 12 months or so when we, and we alone, faced the enemy. Unfortunately, we cannot deal sentimentally with these matters. We have to face the facts, and recognise that no matter how much good will there may be in the White House— and I believe it is there—however much good will there may be in the United States Administration, there is a very considerable and powerful political element in the United States, which stands in the way of any such gesture on the part of the Administration, being carried into effect. I derive some comfort from the fact that, even as it is, the rate of interest, allowing for the five years period of grace before we are called upon to pay, is somewhat lower than the overall rate of interest at which the United States usually borrows its funds, I think something like.4 per cent. That might be some mild comfort. My hon. Friend the Member for South Nottingham (Mr. N. Smith), one of the opponents of the Motion on this side of the House—I do not think he could have read the document as carefully as he should, and I am sorry that he is not here to speak for himself—made a great point and there was a proviso that we should not, during a period of years, borrow from say one of our Dominions, on better terms than the terms of this particular loan. When it is pointed out that the ""better terms"" proviso applies to the lender, and not to the borrower, that particular point loses a great deal of its significance. All we are forbidden to do  under the terms of the proposed agreement is to borrow from somebody else, at a rate of interest higher than that at which we are borrowing from the United States. I do not think anyone objects to that. It would be quite different if we were forbidden to borrow at a lower rate of interest. The criticism is made that we are compelled, as a condition of this loan, to accept the Bretton Woods Agreement. At this late hour I do not propose to go into details about the Bretton Woods Agreement, much as I would like to do so. I would, in passing, however, like to make one or two remarks about the accusation which has been made that it represents a return to the gold standard. To my mind the essence—the bad essence—of the gold standard, from which we departed in the interwar years, was, as my hon. Friend the Member for Chester field (Mr. Benson) said, that it was rigid, that there was hardly any possibility of manoeuvring inside that standard, that it was unmanaged, that it was arbitrary and automatic. It appears to me that the essence of the Bretton Woods Agreement, whether it ties us to gold, whether it expresses our currency in terms of gold or not, is that it is an internationally managed system. That, to me, makes all the difference in the world. We are not dealing with something completely arbitrary, but with an international organisation that has a measure of control, and we have a quite formidable part in that international organisation. Together with our friends we constitute a very great part of it indeed. The hon. Member for East Aberdeen regretted that he had had to teach hon. Members on this side of the House elementary economics, but I rather think he had a first class lesson on that subject himself from the hon. Member for Chesterfield, who made a brilliant speech. The hon. Member for East Aberdeen said the Government were leading this country back to 19th century economic anarchy. He said, ""You cannot have a balanced national economy in a laissez faire world."" I presume he is opposed to such a world. So am I, and so is the Chancellor of the Exchequer. We are proposing a balanced world. We not only want planning in our own country, but we want international planning, into which we can fit our own plan. To suggest that the setting up of   some kind of international organisation, which is going to attempt sensibly to regulate international financial trans actions, is a return to the 19th century laissez faire world is, to my mind, almost too ridiculous to be repeated. I would say particularly to my hon. Friends on this side of the House who are opposing this Motion, that as a Socialist I will support any effort to regulate the exchange of goods and services between countries and to regulate their financial affairs. I believe this loan to be necessary. I believe the conditions attached to the loan in the form of international agreements and international institutions can be made to work. One pre-eminent condition is that the United States will behave as this country behaved during the 19th century as the greatest creditor country. The other condition is that we in this country should bring all our force to bear on the development of our industries, to develop our exports, to nourish our ex ports, and direct our national finances and our capital resources into economic ally favourable channels. I believe if we do that, we need not fear at all that borrowing this money from the United States on conditions that perhaps are more onerous than we ought to expect, and the entry of the United States and all the other countries into international agreements for the future regulation of the economic forces, will be anything but good for the future of this country.
