gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is wish considerable diffidence that I address the House for the first time, a diffidence which is only increased by the polish and content of some of the maiden speeches to which we have listened today. South Angus, the constituency which I have the honour to represent, is I suppose associated in the minds of many hon. Members from south of the Border primarily with beef. We are proud indeed of the connection between our county and the well-known breed of cattle whose name it bears. My constituency also includes some of the best farming land in the whole of Scotland, and, indeed, of Britain, and I may fairly say, some of the best-run farms. There are many other things we produce apart from beef. Among other things, we supply a large part of the British agricultural industry with its supplies of seed potatoes. My constituency has played an important and prominent role in the history of Scotland. It includes perhaps the most famous of all the ancient castles of Scotland at Glamis. The Royal and Ancient Burgh of Arbroath was over 600 years ago the scene of the signing of the Scottish Declaration of Independence. I am bound to say that some of us on this side of the House perhaps would not like to see that Declaration repeated so long as the balance of party strength is  tilted as it is at present in Scotland, for fear of turning the drift to the South, of which we hear from time to time, into an avalanche. My friend and predecessor, Sir James Duncan, was, I believe, as popular and respected on both sides of the House as I know he is in the constituency which he represented for 14 years. Prior to that, he had served another constituency for many years and had given the House over 30 years of devoted service. I know that his wise counsel will be particularly missed in our agricultural debates, and I thought that it was peculiarly felicitous that it was during his tenure of office as Member of Parliament for South Angus that the constituency produced the best selling bull and, I believe, the biggest four-footed dollar-earner ever turned out from this country. Sir James will indeed be a hard man to replace. Like most new Members, I have been advised that a maiden speech is a time for avoiding controversy. I am relieved to learn that this advice is open to various interpretations, for I believe that it is hard for Scots to avoid controversy over political matters at any time. However, I am bearing in mind the advice of that famous son of Angus, Sir James Barrie, that the greatest moral attribute of a Scotsman is that he will do nothing which might damage his career. I shall therefore attempt to observe as far as I may the advice I have been given on this point. I am grateful for the opportunity to address the House tonight. I shall not be able to follow in the debate some of the previous speakers in ranging round the world and examining the speculative loopholes of its financial centres and I would prefer to come rather nearer home for a few minutes. The Budget and the financial measures which the Government have introduced before and after the Budget have affected my constituents in a number of ways and not all of them are likely to be advantageous. My hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Monro) and the hon. Member for Inverness (Mr. Russell Johnston) have already referred in the debate to the deleterious effect of the raising of the Bank Rate and the increase in petrol tax, in particular, on Scotland and its more distant areas. I believe that hon. Members opposite have on some occasions in the past complained that the Bank Rate is a blunt instrument which strikes indiscriminately at those areas in the south of England and the Midlands which are suffering perhaps from excessive demand and also at those areas, for example in Scotland, where there is spare capacity. Indeed, by making industrialists inclined to draw in their horns and, in the words of the Chancellor, rephase their capital investment, areas like Scotland are very often made to suffer first. If this was true in the past, I feel that it is equally true today. And it is a source of some regret to us in eastern Scotland that all the advance factories announced by the Government the other day have been placed in the industrial central belt of Scotland. There is another measure which we are discussing today and which has already been touched upon by my hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries, which I believe actively discriminates, though perhaps unintentionally, against areas like eastern Scotland. I refer to the increase in the petrol tax. This is bound to weigh most heavily on firms situated at a considerable distance from their suppliers and their markets and whose freight costs are consequently higher than those of their competitors who are situated nearer the markets in the South and the Midlands of England. This is a discrimination which was no doubt unintentional, but the effect of it is worrying us in eastern Scotland. As for the import surcharges, I believe that the greatest possible measure of free competition between competing firms regardless of nationality and on the basis of equality is in the interest of our economy and also in the interest of individual citizens. I therefore find these measures distasteful on principle. I am also particularly worried about the dangerous effect which the manner of their introduction may have on the European Free Trade Association. In my constituency there are a number of firms which have developed a valuable export trade with Scandinavia on the basis of the tariff reductions which we have enjoyed in E.F.T.A. Naturally, anything which might place in jeopardy the future of E.F.T.A., and hence of this valuable export trade which has been built up, we must regard with regret and anxiety. There is another long-term possible effect of these surcharges to which I should like to draw the attention of the House. The second industry in my constituency is the jute industry. This industry is unique in that it depends for its raw material on two countries situated on the far side of the globe, which also happen to be its competitors in the market for manufactured jute goods, and which enjoy a substantial advantage in labour costs. The jute industry has, therefore, benefited, and I believe rightly benefited, over the years from a special system of protection which sometimes I believe has been a source of some anxiety to some of my right hon. Friends when my party was in power. The previous Government introduced several modifications to our system of jute protection. I am bound to say that some of these modifications went too far and too fast. I believe that we could have afforded and can afford today to concentrate rather more on drawing the attention of our European friends and neighbours to their duty to play their part in sharing the burden—for it is a burden—of promoting the import of low-cost manufactured textiles from India and Pakistan. The share which they take at the moment is wholly inadequate. In one respect, however, I believe that the modifications introduced by my right hon. Friends were wise, in that they were designed to encourage the jute industry in Scotland to concentrate more particularly on the sophisticated end of the manufactured jute trade, and to leave the so-called ""depressed"" range to the imported manufactures from India. It seems to me that there is a danger that the import surcharges now imposed on the import of manufactured jute goods from India could have the effect of pricing this imported depressed range of jute goods out of the market and thereby encouraging firms in Scotland which have moved out of the depressed range to go back into it. If this happened there would be a danger that if and when the surcharges were removed dislocation and damage might be done. In any case, the future of the jute industry in Scotland will continue to need careful watching. It has enjoyed a period of considerable prosperity in the last year or two, and as a result we in Angus have happily escaped some   of the problems which have affected other parts of Scotland. Nevertheless there is excessive dependence on this one industry, particularly in some of our smaller burghs, and here Her Majesty's Government could help in removing an anomaly. Apart from one small burgh, burghs in the county of Angus are excluded from the Dundee development district and consequently are at a disadvantage compared with Dundee and the rest of the centre of Scotland in the incentives which they can offer to new and diversified industry to settle in them. But the reason for the Dundee development district is, happily, not the level of unemployment in Dundee, but the special position of the jute industry there. If the industry is in a special position in Dundee, I submit that it is in an equally special position in the smaller burghs of the county of Angus. I notice that in his maiden speech my predecessor for the constituency of South Angus made a plea for the removal of precisely this anomaly. This plea was made to a previous Labour Government, and it went unanswered. In all fairness, I must add that he repeated it on several occasions to my right hon. Friends, and it went unanswered then, too. However, there is nothing like trying for a fourth or fifth time. In his Budget speech, the Chancellor said that he was interested in ideas for tax reform. I have one idea to put to him for consideration, an idea which has been ventilated already but which, I believe, needs further consideration. I refer to the payroll tax. As I see it, this tax has several advantages to recommend it. It would encourage the introduction of labour-saving machinery in industry. It would discourage labour-hoarding in areas of high employment such as the South and the Midlands. Above all, to my mind—and this is an advantage which should appeal to hon. Members opposite—it could be an invaluable weapon in regional planning as the rate of payroll tax could be differentiated from region to region according to the pressure on local resources. In this way, we should have a real incentive to manufacturers to move away from the grossly overcrowded areas of the South and Midlands and to take advantage of the unrivalled amenities  and opportunities which await them in areas such as the east of Scotland. Among the objectives of his budget, the Chancellor included the achievement of an incomes policy and an increased drive towards industrial efficiency. These are objectives which all of us can share. But I wonder whether the increase in the cost of living consequent upon the rise in the petrol duty will mean less when it comes to wage negotiations in the months ahead than the inevitably distant prospect of increased welfare benefits on retirement. I had hoped, perhaps unwisely, that the Chancellor. in his drive for increased efficiency in industry, might consider introducing a discriminatory tax against undistributed profits. It has always seemed to me that if we could make firms go to the market for their capital requirements, they would then be judged on their record of profitability and efficiency and would get their money if their record was such that they were likely to contribute to the increased efficiency of British industry. On the other hand, it seems to me that the proposal, as I understand it, to introduce discriminatory taxation against distributed profits is open to the objections which the Royal Commission on the Taxation of Profits and Income put forward, that it is all too likely to provide a feather-bed for the feckless and a disincentive to industrial drive. I am extremely grateful to the House for the tolerance with which it has listened to me. I hope that I have not trespassed upon that tolerance too much, and that it will be extended to me on future occasions.
