gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The people of Ladywood have traditionally demanded that their Member of Parliament should be particularly concerned about constituency matters, which, of course, is not unreasonable, and I thought it useful to take the opportunity today to join in a debate on money matters. It is essential, irrespective of who people are and where they live, that they should have sufficient funds to be able to get through the week. We have heard so far in the debate today about certain matters which have come to the attention of the House because of the measures introduced by the Chancellor a few days ago. If I may, I shall dwell on those matters a little later. The Ladywood constituency includes most of the city centre of Birmingham, and during the recent by-election campaign the Labour Party asked the electors of Ladywood to keep the heart of Bir-  mingham Labour. That was, for want of a better slogan, the one that I used in my campaign and, naturally, I was delighted that the electors in the constituency took my advice and conferred on me the privilege and the pleasure of representing their interests in this House. There is a great tradition in Ladywood, as I have indicated, that the Member of Parliament who comes here to speak for Ladywood should have regard to the fact that the constituency contains a very large proportion of members of the public who earn below the national wage, who are not well off, and who find it very difficult to get along from one pay day to the next. Therefore, some of the matters that we are discussing today will have a direct effect on them. I know, from living in the constituency with my constituents, that they will want me to say something about that. As I have said, this may be a good opportunity to do so. There are a number of matters that concern everyone who is a taxpayer and everyone who is a retired person receiving a pension. If I may, I should like to refer to one of my most distinguished predecessors, Mr. Victor Yates, who served the constituency with distinction for a long period and who was a Member who was very well respected by his colleagues in this House. I may add that Mr. Yates was always a Member of Parliament who found it necessary, because of his own political convictions and because of the knowledge that he had of the people for whom he spoke, to come here and speak about people who were less well off than some others. I hope, therefore, in some small measure to be able to follow, with some degree of enthusiasm, anyway, in his steps. It is important for people who are earning below the national wage and not making much progress through what is generally regarded as social life in Britain to have someone to speak for them. It is disturbing to me that 32 years after Mr. Yates came to this House to make his maiden speech some of the matters about which I wish to talk this afternoon have not been corrected. He spoke with considerable eloquence, far more than I shall be able to muster, about deprivation in our large cities, particularly at that time in Ladywood, about housing and about living conditions. I hope that, as we see measures coming from this Administration implementing their fiscal and financial policies, we shall have the ability to provide money to our large cities and to do something about the problems of the inner cities and especially housing. In his maiden speech, Mr. Victor Yates spoke with considerable passion about correspondence that he had received from a constituent concerning a housing problem. It seems to me that that sort of thing is what we are about in this House. If we are not, I do not know why we are here. It is often easy to be able to make grand speeches or grand gestures about matters which may not be vital to the interests of the people who send us here or the interests of those who pay our salaries. I want now to refer to housing in the inner cities, and I hope that I shall be allowed some degree of latitude. This is a matter to which we must pay some regard in discussing the distribution of State money. I refer to inner city housing because we in Ladywood do not have enough money to do the job that we are anxious to see fulfilled—and I am sure that that problem exists in all constituencies. If we are to give all families in Britain the chances that they need, we must initially provide them with decent homes in which to bring up their families. There has been an enormous housing programme in the middle of Birmingham, largely instigated by such people as Victor Yates. We want to improve that programme and to institute one in which the faults have been corrected. We must find the money to do that and to speed progress. I welcomed the statement a few days ago by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and, subsequently, by the Secretary of State for the Environment. There was in that some degree of recognition that the inner cities, having received a considerable amount of support during the last few years, need more funds to be made available to them. The Government seemed to be moving in that direction, and I am sure that my constituents will welcome the Government's moves. There are particular housing problems in my constituency concerning those who live in high-rise developments that were  built because there were not sufficient funds available to build the houses that were desperately wanted and that it was hoped would be provided. That is history. There is not a great deal we can do about what exists, but there is much that we can do about what we provide in future. There are various people living in high-rise flats who would want me to speak on their behalf today. There are young married couples with families who find that there is no joy in life in trying to contain a young family 20 storeys up in the sky in a filing cabinet. People cannot cope with that easily and they are turning in greater numbers to medicines to help them with the distress and conflict of such a life. Another group is the elderly who have, as they say ""Done the whole bit"". They tell me, ""We have done it. We have lived here in multi storey blocks since they were constructed and first put into the large cities."" Such people have seen their families grow up to leave home and take their own chances in the world, but the elderly are left behind and they say, justifiably, with reason and fairness ""Is it not now about time we had our chance and that you took us out of this sort of accommodation and gave us the sort of housing that we have long sought and desperately need in our old-age?"" I should welcome such measures as may be forthcoming from the Government that would make money available to do that. Those who live in inner urban areas—and my constituents are certainly representative of such people—live in close proximity to industry, commerce and trade. They do not have the social facilities that many of us seek for ourselves. Therefore, in discussing housing policy and the way in which the nation's money should be spent, we should pay regard to the preservation of the environment—which is a vital matter to those who live in city centres. My constituents have already asked me to do whatever I can to encourage the Government to provide money for the protection of the environment and society. If money is to be made available for such things, naturally I and those of my hon. Friends who agree with me will jump up in the House to support such measures and encourage the Government.   Some of my hon. Friends have said that the economy is improving, and I hope that it does such measures will be brought forward and money made available. If that does not happen, the troubles that so many people talk about today—vandalism and crime in the big cities, for instance—will not abate but worsen and cause further difficulties. If we wish to contain the problem, a substantial amount of Government money will be needed. We must recommit ourselves—and I hope that Members opposite as well as my hon. Friends will do so—to measures that will protect those members of our society who are least able to look after themselves. That will, in part, be helped by the measure that we are discussing today. The elderly are pleased that the Government are able to consider such measures as the re-introduction of the pensioners' Christmas bonus, and I welcome that belated decision. It will encourage people to believe that the nation's fortunes are improving. I believe that that point is particularly in the minds of Ministers in view of the comments that were made from the Government Front Bench a short while ago. The country believes that the situation is improving somewhat and that the measures that I have advocated are likely to be forthcoming in the not too distant future. In the political sense, I can well appreciate that hon. Members opposite may wish to argue that these measures may be put forward to win votes. That is a debate in itself. However, that is not an opinion to which I subscribe. In that respect it is helpful to my argument that I was returned at a by-election that took place before the measure that we are discussing today was made known. There is another group of people in my constitutency on whose behalf I want to use my time in my maiden speech. That is the substantial immigrant population. There is an extremely large immigrant community in Ladywood representing all parts of the world. We have a large number of Asians, West Indians and immigrants from Europe. Such people have come to our big cities primarily to make their way in the world and to do an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. Those who are doing so are being encouraged to continue in that way. I am reluctant to be critical, but a number of immigrants are concerned about the attitude of the British who were here first. They are concerned that the host community should welcome them and do whatever it can to ensure that society is friendly and operates in a fair and non-discriminatory way. Community leaders, particularly the more articulate, approach many hon. Members to ensure that whatever protection may be afforded to them will be forthcoming. Immigrants in my constituency were particularly alarmed by the scenes during my by-election campaign. Those who came into the constituency to foment racial hatred—although there was a big disturbance on one day—fortunately went away without having disrupted the harmonious and well-balanced community that existed before their arrival. They got their answer in the derisory vote that they received in the election. Nevertheless, we are doing all we can in my constituency—as I am sure is happening in other constituencies—to promote everyone's interests. There are too many gaps in society that should be filled by representatives of ethnic minorities. Too much talent, expertise, and natural good will are being wasted among the immigrant community. We should do whatever we can to take that good will and expertise into our community and promote it wherever possible. We are all looking for the advancement of the British economy, and to secure that we need to encourage small business men, trade, industry, and skilled labour. Much of what is needed, particularly skilled labour, is to be found among our immigrant friends, and they are only too willing to play their full part. On another financial matter I want to say that in the big cities a situation is developing where crime and the lack of certain protection to certain individuals is causing some concern. In the big cities it is easy for people who want to come in and to foment racial hatred and other difficulties to point to the shortcomings in our society. It is easy for such people to argue that unemployment, urban deprivation and a lack of caring in society are reasons for the growth in crime and vandalism. In the big cities these problems are reflected in crime ranging from petty   vandalism to grand larceny, armed robbery and so on. It can be argued that the way to work towards combating these problems is to put the taxpayers' money into the provision of facilities for young people, facilities for the community and facilities for the development of those sorts of social projects for which my hon. Friends have always argued and which my predecessors have always demanded. If we put that sort of money into the city centres, we might find that, contrary to popular and inaccurate belief, we are able to encourage young people to take an interest in their society and to make a valuable contribution, particularly in the big towns. In conclusion I want to refer to the former representative of Birmingham, Ladywood, Mr. Brian Walden. He was always able to bring a degree of good humour and expertise to his work. I also understand from colleagues in this House that he brought from Ladywood a freshness of approach and a degree of social conscience to the debates in which he took part. I hope to do that also. It is a two-way road between us and the constituents whom we represent. I hope to be able to bring to this House the views and aspirations of the people of Ladywood in order that it might give them consideration in the great debates in which I hope to participate. In turn I hope to be able to take from this House the expertise that I shall require to look after my constituents' best interests. Brian Walden and his distinguished predecessors did that. We in the heart of Birmingham like to think that we have sent to this House distinguished representatives who have been able to do that two-way job effectively. I hope that I shall be able to join their ranks and to play my part in debates and discussions in this House.
