gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very pleased to be able to follow the hon. Member for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Grimond). He underlined two matters of great importance. He spoke of the need for effective savings so that development can take place in colonial countries. If the rising standards of the Colonial Territories can be fairly shared among the population, and there can be development of peoples' institutions like co-operative societies and trade unions. savings can take place through those institutions which will help the economic development of the countries concerned. I was also impressed by the hon. Member's reference to the need for a Commonwealth service to provide the necessary technicians and administrators. Perhaps we do not have to wait for such a service to be established. We have already international agencies like the World Health Organisation and U.N.E.S.C.O. which could do a very effective job indeed in our colonial countries if we allowed them to go in there. Some years ago, when I was in Uganda, an annual meeting of the World Health Organisation was held in Kampala, but such was the parochial outlook of our Colonial Civil Service in Uganda that it prevented representatives attending that conference from having anything to do with the health service  which was being established in Uganda. They were not allowed even to see the services that had been established. That is a fantastic state of affairs. We must be big enough to realise that in our Colonial Territories we can receive a great deal of assistance from these world agencies. I have been struck by comments from the benches opposite on the unanimity of feeling on the subject of this debate. It may be partly due to the fact that there have been a few conversions on the benches opposite. There has been a great development of ideas in the past few years. I thought so when I heard the hon. Member for Harrow, West (Sir A. Braithwaite) explaining the importance of public enterprise in colonial development and when the hon. Member for Wavertree (Mr. Tilney) spoke of the importance of establishing a target date for colonial countries to achieve independence, so that they should be able to choose in advance whether or not they would remain in the Commonwealth. I thought that, too, when the hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Langford-Holt) introduced the subject of the debate in his very able speech and emphasised that development in colonial countries must be carried out with the object of improving the standard of living of the people of those countries. References have also been made in the debate not only to the assistance that we in the United Kingdom give to the colonial countries, but also to the assistance that our economy can receive from the Commonwealth. I should like to underline that point, because in too many places today it is assumed that all the aid is flowing in one direction. As my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, South (Mr. Gaitskell) said in the House a few weeks ago, our economy has been greatly assisted by the sterling balances which the colonial countries have built in this country in the last few years. They amount to over £1,200 million. The fact that these colonial countries have been sending raw material and foodstuffs here, which we have not yet paid for in goods, has been a substantial help to our economy. We all want to see the economic development of colonial countries. Why? Because we want to see the standard of living of the indigenous people in those   countries improved. We are all approaching this subject with that premise in our minds. I wonder, however, whether economic development has always meant better living standards for the people in the colonial countries, and whether the economic rewards are being fairly shared among all sections of the community when development takes place? I was impressed when my hon. Friend the Member for Rugby (Mr. J. Johnson) referred to his experience in the last few weeks in Northern Rhodesia. I was struck by his remark that we need to examine the terms and conditions of investment and the benefit that flows from it. I have here the 1955 Annual Report of Northern Rhodesia, which is the latest available. This states that the number of Europeans involved in the copper mining industry in Northern Rhodesia is 7,660, whereas the number of Africans engaged in it is approximately 50,000. The monthly wages of Africans, the Report states, are … based on thirty shifts of eight hours.… Surface workers receive from £10 12s. to £23 7s. and underground workers £11 10s. to £25 14s. On the other hand, the Europeans receive much higher incomes. According to the Report. their monthly earnings range from £125 17s. 8d. to £176 6s. 8d. for surface workers and from £103 7s. 1d. to £197 12s. for underground workers for twenty-six shifts of eight hours' duration. Of course, it may be said that the European workers are doing much more skilled jobs. That may be true in some cases, but it is also a fact that many Africans have been denied an opportunity of participating in the skilled occupations which they could well perform.
