gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing, in this Committee, the House of Commons for the first time, I would ask for that kindness which has been shown to so many of my colleagues today to be extended to me, although I hope that at this late hour of the day the patience of hon. Members is not entirely exhausted. In an endeavour to be brief I shall confine my remarks to the Budget and, in particular, to the Purchase Tax. I appreciate that after 10 years of this levy there may be nothing very new or original which can be said about it. I hope that the Committee will forgive a new Member who is fresh, or fairly fresh, from a General Election if he makes a few remarks about the iniquities, anomalies and absurdities of this tax. The feelings of the public on this matter run very high, but they have received very scant consideration in the Budget, apart from those of that limited section of the public who are contemplating the purchase of shiny limousines. I do not think that in the country there is any misunderstanding as to the unpopularity of the tax, and I feel that I ought to add to the many protests that have already been made about it before it is accepted as a permanent part of our fiscal system. This tax had its origin in the needs of war, like the Income Tax, and it, too, has been prolonged into peace-time. But we hope that the history of the Income Tax will not be repeated, for that tax, with one short gap, has now been with us for 100 years. I trust I am not too optimistic in hoping that history will not repeat itself in the case of the Purchase Tax. The Purchase Tax was first introduced to deter spending, but it is quite clear that its only object now is to raise revenue, and that it has become a major prop of the Budget. To my mind, this tax has no virtues, but has many most dangerous faults. It was substantially improved in 1948 by the action of the Chancellor when he reduced the rate on many articles, and when, in particular, he consolidated the rates of the tax to three. He did much on that occasion to simplify the structure, but many anomalies now remain which only serve to illustrate the inequity of the tax. I appreciate that it is very easy to point to these anomalies. but they certainly serve to illustrate what I call its inequity. In this Chamber recently our attention was drawn to the fact that 100 per cent. Purchase Tax was being charged on certain kinds of Christmas cards, and how that compared with the rate of tax charged on the furnishings of the game of roulette, which, I understand, is against the law, even if played in a private house. The layman asks himself what is the guiding principle behind this difference in rates; why, for instance, a tooth brush is charged at 331 per cent. while there is no tax at all on a shoe brush; why a tooth-brush rack is charged at 331 per cent., while, if I may quote from the Schedule, a tooth-brush holder, personal to the user, is charged at 100 per cent.? Most strange of all is that a pair of hand-operated hair clippers is charged at 333 per cent. while electric hair clippers are exempted altogether. I realise that it is quite impossible to avoid certain of these discrepancies, but the general public are bound to feel that, in a way, it involves a moral judgment on the part of the powers that be who must seem to them to have come to the conclusion that it is better to clean one's shoes than to clean one's teeth, and that it is better in times of national economic difficulty to have one's hair clipped by  electric rather than by hand-operated clippers. It appears to result in a distortion of the spending pattern covering all these commodities. The uncertain incidence of the tax inevitably creates a false sense of values, and, finally, the effect of the tax is inflationary. I was depressed by reading in HANSARD certain words uttered by the right hon. Member for Bishop Auckland (Mr. Dalton) some two years ago, when he said:  The Purchase Tax is gradually evolving into what I have always considered it ought to be—a substantial revenue yielder not to be swept away in a hurry, yielding revenue from luxury articles and from things which lie between the field of semi-essentials and luxuries.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 7th April, 1948; Vol. 449, c. 198.] I think we can at least recognise that the Chancellor has now appreciated the harm that can be done to the export trade, and that he has therefore eliminated the tax on expensive cars. But that applies also to many other articles at the other end of the scale. I am more concerned with those which come at the lower end of the scale and which still include many articles essential even to the modest standard of living of this austere generation. We can all agree that a tax on essentials is inflationary, and if we accept the definition of the right hon. Gentleman which I have just quoted, at least both sides of the Committee will agree that a tax on semi-essentials is semi-inflationary. I regret that the Chancellor did not find it possible to propound any solution for the problem of the retailer who finds his stocks devalued by the reduction of the Purchase Tax. I understand that the Chancellor expressed the hope a year ago that he would be able to do something about it, but nothing has been done. It should be appreciated that the total abolition of the tax would cost the retail trade of the country between £60 million and £90 million. While it is improbable that such an event would happen and that the tax would go in one fell swoop, it gives an idea of the loss which the trade will incur over a long period. We must remember how fortunate the Chancellor is in the collection of this tax. Although, in theory, it is levied on the consumer, in practice it is paid in the interim by the retailer, and so the Chancellor receives Purchase Tax as an   interest-free loan from the shopkeepers, these unofficial, unacknowledged, unrewarded taxgatherers. I should have thought it was not beyond the wit of man, and in this case the Excise man, to devise some way of recompensing the trader for the loss he incurs if and when the tax is reduced or, alternatively, that some rebate might be paid to him in recognition of the services he renders to the Exchequer as a tax collector. We are all disappointed that so little has been done towards getting rid of this unpopular tax. The Chancellor has taken one faltering step and we can only hope fog better luck next time. I would conclude by reminding the Committee of the old saying that it is the duty of a good shepherd to shear his flock and not to flay them.
