gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for enabling me to catch your eye and to make my maiden speech in this important debate. I represent now the constituency of South Norfolk. It is with some surprise but great delight that I find myself following in John Hill's footsteps. I know with what warm affection and regard he was held both in the House and in the constituency. He is a most kind and sympathetic man who always did his utmost to help his constituents with their problems. Nationally, he had a wide range of interests over the 19 years that he spent in the House—agriculture, inevitably, but many others ranging from nursery education to long and sterling work in the cause of European unity. It is not only the people of South Norfolk who owe him a great deal. I am a comparative newcomer to South Norfolk. There is a saying in the villages there that one is not accepted as a local until everyone who remembered one's coming has died. In addition to this slow acceptance of strangers, Norfolk has in the past been noted for its independence of mind, its gentle pace of life and its rural appeal. I stress ""has been in the past"", because all is now changing fast, and perhaps I, with a fresh eye, can see it most clearly. The independence of mind is still there. The rural appeal is still there. Indeed it is a delightful county with long landscapes and fascinating sky views. Agriculture is still important, and Norfolk is well placed to make a large contribution to the expanding agriculture which our nation now so badly requires. But agriculture no longer dominates. It is an interesting fact that, however widely the agricultural community is defined, it contributes only 20 per cent. of the South Norfolk work force. The remainder is to be found to a large extent in small to medium-sized industry, with Thetford playing a major part as a large overspill town from inner London. It is an overspill that has been done most  attractively. The remainder is divided between small and medium industry and the large proportion who go to Norwich each day as part of the commuted work force for this expanding commercial centre. If in this debate I dwell a little more on my constituency than is customary, it is because it is relevant to the debate itself. There are two other factors about South Norfolk which I should like to bring out. The first is that, in common with many other counties, it has a fast expanding population, with the expansion concentrated among the young, the young married couples, who are making such heavy demands on the schools in Norfolk, largely as a result of the overspill, and on the old, for Norfolk has been found to be a place very attractive to the retired: indeed, the proportion of over-65s in Norfolk is some 20 per cent. above the national average. They have come there because, until recently, and certainly now, Norfolk was a cheaper place in which to live and to eke out one's savings in retirement. So the fast expansion of the population is a relevant factor to Norfolk's local government services. But the second factor, which in my view is equally important, is that, unlike many other counties, this population is evenly spread throughout the large expanse of South Norfolk. It is concentrated in small villages, sometimes tiny hamlets, and small towns, rather than in two or three major expansion areas. This inevitably creates immense problems for local government services. I might add that this combination makes it, as I discovered during the election campaign, one of the largest constituencies not only in terms of size but in terms of population. I turn to the question of the rate support grant. I know that it is the custom to be non-controversial in one's maiden speech—though I am comforted by the remarks of the hon. Member for Gloucestershire, West (Mr. Loughlin) and certainly by many of the preceding speeches. I should like to take this opportunity to make clear to the House the serious situation facing many of my constituents. If not non-controversial, certainly I shall be non-partisan, for if I were to scatter shot, I should be spreading it evenly to many targets. I recognise well the merits of the original objectives of the reform of local government finance and of the rate support grant, but I think that the new system has clearly created anomalies, as it was bound to, and we must hope that they will quickly be put right. My aim in the remainder of my remarks on the rate support grant is to be constructive and to draw attention to some of the lessons which I think have occurred in its application to Norfolk. I speak here not only of my own constituency, but of Norfolk as a whole, because I know that my concern is shared by all other Members for that area, and in one district council I share the problem with my hon. Friend for Norfolk, South-West (Mr. Hawkins). The facts for the domestic ratepayer—it is he on whom I am concentrating—are that on average he faces an increase of 55 per cent. this year, though this may not be as bad as the worst constituencies, for in some districts in south Norfolk the increase is as high as 80 per cent., or just over. That 55 per cent. average is composed of three elements. About 15 per cent. of it is due to the inevitable consequences of inflation and the need to provide for the growing population; that is to say, it would have been an increase of 15 per cent. were not the rate support grant system altered. A further 18 per cent. is due to the reforms carried out under the previous Government. But the catastrophic change has been produced by the remaining 22 per cent. as a result of the action of the present administration. I know that the total rates payable in areas like Norfolk are lower than many parts of the inner urban areas. But increases of this order play havoc with the budgets of the people in the areas concerned and for many who are just above the minimum level for the rate rebate relief. They have equally serious problems. It especially applies to many young married couples who have come in and inevitably paid the high house prices and increased mortgage rates. It applies also to the retired who are trying to make their retirement pleasant on small savings. Bearing in mind that the area has one of the lowest average incomes in the country, it is clear that rate increases of this order represent serious consequences for the people. This rate increase of 55 per cent. compares with what the grants working group last autumn originally thought for Norfolk would be an increase of 2·1 per cent. The main factor, indeed, has been the loss of £12 million in the Government grant. What, then, has gone wrong to produce this unexpected result? There are four factors to which I should like to draw attention and which I hope the Government will take into account in their review of the system next year. The first factor is that the switch from the so-called rural to urban areas has been too sudden and too drastic. Almost half the loss to Norfolk has been caused by this switch. I speak with an interest as I am an inner urban ratepayer. But I well understand the local reaction of many of my constituents, who realise that, while they have the benefit of country living, they have at the same time the disadvantage of having only few of the facilities provided by local government services that their urban counterparts have. I have had shoals of letters on this theme, and I should like to quote from just one. It says: We live in a small village with no street lights, no road sweepers, no paths for our children to walk on. We are very lucky, we do have a bus which runs about three days a week, at one a day. So why have we got to pay more rates to subsidise the city when we do not benefit from the facilities? That lady may well have added that they have no sewerage, no other facilities for children, such as swimming pools, no libraries, and so on. They pay heavy transport costs which have to be provided by their own car. When one remembers also that these same so-called rural areas are, as I have said, areas with, on average, low incomes, and that they are also areas which are helping to ease the inner urban problem by taking a lot of the population from inner urban areas, at great expense to themselves, one sees the justice of the case that this switch from the rural to the urban areas has been too sudden and too drastic. My second factor relates to population density. It seems, though we still have to see further evidence, that the old system of working out the population density on road mileage per head of population, rather than acreage per head   of population, might have been more accurate and fairer. It more accurately depicts the picture of an area like South Norfolk, which has a large population but it is spread evenly throughout several hamlets, compared with one where the population may be concentrated in two or three centres in an otherwise large area with mountains, moorland, and so on in between. I believe that the formula for dealing with population density should be looked at again. My third factor is the effect of a fast expansion in population. In South Norfolk it is now six times the national average and growing proportionately all the time. I do not believe that the significance of this on local authority services is yet properly reflected in the formula. It is not just the fact that there is a loss of two years' revenue, because the formula relates to population two years previously. In South Norfolk's case it means that an extra 21,000 population have not been catered for. I think the point is much more that in areas such as this the expansion of population means that old small villages are doubling in a short space of time. Their facilities, which were adequate to cope with the problems they faced, say, five years ago, such as local schools, are now no longer adequate. Therefore, areas such as those face an inevitably heavy local government programme that must be reflected in their costs. The fourth factor is the change back from the variable relief system to the fixed rate system, of which we have heard so much today. I shall not add to what has already been said, because the point has been extremely well made, most of all perhaps by my right hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher). But I believe that it is fair to say that at least the variable rate relief element took account of the situation for ratepayers, such as those in my constituency, who are facing this sudden and dramatic increase. Measures taken in haste such as this are rarely good measures. They always have their rebound, and today we have seen the effects of that rebound. Three of the four factors I have talked about have one thing in common, namely, to show that some recognition should be given to the extra needs of so-  called rural areas that are seeking to help the inner urban areas by taking their population, just as much as recognition needs to be given to the inner urban areas themselves. I hope that that will be reflected by returning to the proposition put forward by the previous Government in respect of the rate support grant this year. If not, I ask the Government to ensure that it should be reflected in the increase order this year, if there is one, and in the new formula to be arranged for next year.
