gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
To some, in their maiden speeches, it is a duty to pay tribute to their predecessors in the House. For me it is the greatest pleasure. Sir Tufton Beamish represented the Lewes   constituency for almost 29 years. During that time he was a popular and serious Member of the House, as in recent years he has been and is still a conscientious member of the European Parliament. In spite of the acknowledged burden of this dual responsibility, he always worked hard for all of his constituents and was their much loved and much respected representative. He will be missed in Lewes, and I believe that he is missed here. As it is a particularly long time since the House was reminded of the character of the Lewes constituency, I hope that I may be allowed to dwell on that for a few moments, as is customary. In this Parliament of minorities it is particularly a pleasure to do so, as it was at the Battle of Lewes that Simon de Montfort defeated Henry III and the first representative English Parliament was formed. It is also a particular pleasure to be speaking now after exactly 100 years of Conservative representation of the constituency of Lewes and at the start of what I hope may be the second century of such good sense among the electors of that constituency. But the Lewes constituency is attractive for reasons other than electoral reasons. Through the constituency, from east to west, run the South Downs, no longer the virtually exclusive preserve of the sheep of that name, but still providing a geographical backbone to the farmers in the constituency. Through the Downs cut two rivers—the Cuckmere, which exits to the English Channel through the Seven Sisters Country Park and Bird sanctuary, and the Ouse, which runs the full length of the constituency, from Newick in the north, which is just three miles south of the Ashdown Forest, through to the thriving port of Newhaven in the south. This port, under the usually benevolent eye of British Railways, enjoys the boom of increased trade and tourism with Europe, the growth of interest in sailing and boating in all its forms and, not least, the return to prosperity of the local fishing fleet, in which my hon. Friend the Member for Hastings (Mr. Warren), my hon. Friend the Member for Rye (Mr. Godman Irvine). my hon. Friend the Member for Brighton, Kemptown (Mr. Bowden), and my hon. Friend the Member  for Shoreham (Mr. Luce), as well as my predecessor, have shown such an interest. To the west of Newhaven are the residential areas of Peacehaven, Telscombe Cliffs and East Saltdean, many of whose residents are retired and have been grateful for the actions of the previous Government in drawing proper attention to their needs and taking those actions to meet them which have been such an inspiration to the present Government. To the east of Newhaven lies Seaford, for many years predominantly a retirement community but more recently attracting by its balmy sea breezes and attractive surroundings younger married couples, working there and to the east and west. Coming inland through some of the prettiest villages, of Alfriston, Selmeston Firle and Berwick, to name but a few, there is the market town of Hailsham, which with Lewes can boast the most lively and prosperous cattle markets in the South-East. From Hailsham in the east to Plumpton and Ditchling in the west, there is no place in the length and breadth of the Kingdom in which one will find more beautiful countryside. May I extend a most open and cordial invitation to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and through you to all Members of the House, to visit me there? I have dwelt long on the glories of the Lewes constituency, not only because they deserve to be honoured but because they provide the indispensable backdrop to the Bill that we are discussing tonight. In this small island of ours no one natural recreational amenity can be considered in a vacuum, separated from the others, most particularly from others contiguous to it. To this extent the Ashdown Forest is part not just of the Sussex amenity scene but of the amenity facilities of London and the whole of the southeastern part of England. The Seaford Head Nature Reserve, run by the Lewes District Council, the Ditchling Common Country Park, which is just being pieced together by the East Sussex County Council, and the Seven Sisters Country Park, already mentioned, are but three recreational facilities which fall, all or part, within my constituency and which all have a bearing on our attitude to the Ashdown Forest. All these facilities are administered by local or county councils which are charged   with the conservation of the flora and fauna of these parks for the benefit of those who use them, from wherever they may come—and they do that very well. Ashdown Forest is of the same stature as these parks. Indeed, some may say that it is greater in stature than some of them. It is no longer a vulnerable local wood existing on borrowed time and with gifts of money. It is a feature of our countryside which is recreationally important, ecologically important and environmentally important. It is common land and, as such, it must be protected. That, I believe, is the true object of the Bill. Indeed, following the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer earlier today, it is, I hope, not impertinent to say that the Bill has uniquely all the attributes which hon. Members on both sides of the House surely seek in any legislation. It is designed to provide for financial stability in a world in which financial stability is at a premium. It is designed to match representation with responsibility—a situation which is not always so, as everyone in the House knows. The Bill provides for more effective management and better control, yet at the same time establishing for the first time wider legal rights for the public use of the forest, be they men, women or children who use it. Over all of this it protects the existing rights of common upon the forest. The people of Sussex are proud to have been so often in the vanguard of planning for coast and countryside. I join my hon. Friend the Member for East Grinstead (Mr. Johnson Smith) and my hon. Friends who represent all the constituencies of Sussex, vast numbers of the commoners of Ashdown Forest, the majority of the Board of Conservators of Ashdown Forest and the overwhelming majority of opinion in Sussex, in supporting the Bill. I beg that it be given a Second Reading.
