gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
First, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to address this House for the first time. I begin by paying tribute to my predecessor, Oscar Murton, who served his constituency and the House in the same quiet and courteous way, a manner which the House got to know when he was Chairman of Ways and Means. He was ever kind, but on occasion he could be firm. I am sure that the House found, as we did in the constituency, that when he made up his mind that something was just, he could not be swayed. I know that other hon. Members will join me in wishing him every success as he continues to serve Parliament in another place. Many people think of Poole as simply another holiday resort on the South Coast. As we enjoy the second largest natural harbour in the world, it is not surprising that sailing, water sports and  so on should be among our main attractions. An enlightened borough council has managed so to control development that we have a balance between industry, offices and residential developments, so that those young people who wish to do so can continue their careers in their own home town and spend their whole lives there. We have also solved some of the problems of vandalism, the problems of empty streets at night. The entertainment centre, the swimming baths and the sports centre are all adjacent to the main shopping area, which means that at virtually any time of the day or night there is some activity in the centre of the town. The town is full of businesses, large and small, which I am sure will benefit from the measures recently introduced by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry. We cover the whole range of industry, from electronics and engineering, caravans and boats to some of the better-known food products, which start life in Poole. We also have the headquarters of one of the major international banks. We are proud that the Royal National Lifeboat Institution is also in Poole. The whole lifeboat movement is controlled from one of the buildings in my constituency. It is perhaps a strange fact that many electronic instruments exported from Japan are fitted with liquid crystal displays exported from Poole. That achievement was recently recognised by a Queen's Award. We have a thriving and bustling port. Those responsible for its development are determined that it will continue to be the servant of the people of Poole and not become their master. It is in Poole that the European Community really takes life, because we are twinned with the town of Cherbourg. We have had one visit so far this year, and we look forward to another, when 800 people from Poole are going to Cherbourg to meet our friends there. Our roll-on/roll-off ferry, with three services a day between Poole and Cherbourg, plays its part in exporting. Even the oysters that so many holiday makers enjoy in Britatny start life in Poole harbour. You will see, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that all in all it is possible to say that in Poole we are export-oriented. You may find it strange, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that I should want to tear myself away from the delights of such a constituency to suggest that we might extend this Session. I find myself—perhaps for the first and last time—in agreement with the hon. Member for Keighley (Mr. Cryer) that we should put off the recess. I continually receive messages from my constituents to the effect that exporting is becoming harder. The markets are tougher, yet more than ever, if we are to have economic recovery, we need those exports. My constituents welcome the fact that there will be less inteference by the Government in their affairs. They welcome the fact that as managers they will take decisions without the Government looking over their shoulders and that they will live by the result of their decisions. They hope that the shortage of skilled technologists which is apparent in Poole will be remedied now that tax cuts will make it worth while putting up with long and sometimes exacting training. I also make a plea for continuing sympathy with the export salesman. He is the lifeblood of the export industry, but too often he has been neglected. I freely acknowledge the efforts of the last Government, but we still find that he is at a disadvantage from the point of view of disruption of his family life and the fact that he is often taking physical risks and putting up with arduous conditions. He is also still at a tax disadvantage compared with those who set up homes overseas in relative comfort. Export orders are not obtained by correspondence. The salesman must be prepared to jump into an aeroplane at an hour's notice to get together with the potential customer. He often finds himself competing with salesmen from other countries who have been subsidised by their Governments. Our customers are not interested in this country's problems. They are not interested in the fact that we have delays in manufacture and delivery, in the fact that we have industrial troubles. They feel that those are our problems, for us to sort out. Too often, while there are  quarrels within our industries, out competitors jump in and run off with the orders. As I have said, the export market is a difficult area in which to work, and we need the wholehearted support of the Government at home and overseas. From my experience in exporting buildings and building management, that overseas support varies considerably. Where the ambassador appreciates the need for trade, the members of his staff are enthusiastic and helpful. Indeed, they often go out and seek commercial opportunities for our people. Regrettably, however, where in some areas we are still regarded as an intrusion in the daily round, we get less than the support that we deserve, and that gives our competitors a head start. I should like to call for a more positive attiude from the Export Credits Guarantee Department at home, and I am concerned that we are moving that Department so far away from the banking world of the City. It provides a valuable service, but inevitably it is in the more difficult territories that we most need its help. Rarely is a decision reached with the speed that our customers demand, and our competitors have often obtained their credit insurance before we get off the ground. I am not asking for noncommercial decisions, but when inquiries are made they should be dealt with at a sufficiently high level to enable much speedier and more next-day decisions. Even if the decision is unfavourable, there should be time to seek other sources of finance. If a firm is left waiting for some weeks before a decision is made, its competitors have moved in and are halfway down the negotiation course before it starts. Most of the export people belong to the ""trade, no aid"" school. Too often aid is wasted and has got into the wrong hands. Aid should be given in the form of building up industry within the countries to which it is given so that they can use their own natural resources. I include in that the training and management that a country needs to run new industries. I see nothing immoral, and everything good for this country and the recipient, if, when we give aid, we specify that the money shall be spent in this country with British industry. Our competitors are not slow to do that. In basic industries such as building, the precious commodity of one satisfied customer is better than thousands of pounds of advertising. I look to the Government for more enthusiastic support for free enterprise, and those engaged in free enterprise are largely the exporters of this country. I hope that my right hon. and hon. Friends on the Front Bench will bear in mind the needs of the people who take the physical and financial risks in going into markets abroad. As many of my colleagues have done, I conclude with thanks to the staff of the House and to other hon. Members. Over the past few weeks their friendliness and courtesy have made a memorable occasion also a happy one.
