gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence and forbearance of the House in this my first endeavour to address this Assembly. During the course of this Debate there have been a large number of speeches given by those who have had first-hand information on their subject and, therefore, what I have to say I am going to restrict in time, because I feel that there are many others who have points which they wish to bring to bear on this discussion. As a newcomer to this House I am very conscious of the fact that during this Debate all the speeches have been made from the centre of the House, inasmuch as that all Members have spoken from the same point of view, and I hope that whatever notice  His Majesty's Government may take of the words I have to say, they will regard them in that light. This is above all not a party matter. It is a matter which concerns intimately all of us in this country. Speaking only for myself, I must say that I had the highest regard for what the Foreign Secretary had to say in his speech and the way in which he said it. I believe that he touched upon the essence of this problem—and let us not get away from that—when he said that he wanted to dispel the chronic apprehensions that prevail among statesmen throughout Europe. I believe that if the Foreign Secretary succeeds in that endeavour he will have largely solved the problems of Europe and of the world. A few weeks ago, on the Motion for the Adjournment, there was a discussion along the lines we are following to-day. It was raised by the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Stokes) and supported by an hon. Member from this side of the House. I listened intently throughout that discussion and since then I have tried to make what research I could into that question. As it appears to me, the problem is not only one of Germany but of the whole of Europe. These things of which we talk to-day are going on not only in Germany, but in Yugoslavia—and in that connection I would like His Majesty's Government to tell me whether full facilities are being accorded to U.N.R.R.A. in that country—in Holland, Austria, Hungary, Poland as well as in Germany. The result of all this is that this winter, and probably again next winter, disease will be rampant on the Continent of Europe. Disease, as the Foreign Secretary has said, cannot be prevented from crossing a frontier because it has no passport. Disease will cross water barriers, water barriers 20 miles wide, and it will spread its evil tentacles until it has ravaged and pillaged the whole of the Continent. I would like to suggest just two courses which are open to His Majesty's Government. The first, as was said by a speaker on this side of the House, is to build up the morale of the German people. It has been destroyed for a period of 10 years. They do not know how to govern themselves, and we in this country, possibly the greatest colonisers the world has ever seen, are able to help them and to teach them to go along the road towards their own recovery. Secondly, I ask His   Majesty's Government—and I believe they will do this—to exert their utmost endeavours towards stopping these mass deportations that are going on between countries. I fully believe that that is the problem and that if His Majesty's Government will do all in their power—and there is much that they have not done yet that can be done—they will be rendering the greatest service possible to humanity, for, if we do not do what we are able to do, we shall find, I feel, that there will be a British-made nail in the cross of Europe's crucifixion.
