gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make my maiden speech in this House, there are two traditions that I enthusiastically support. The first, naturally enough, is the one by which the indulgence of the House is extended to the new Member during his maiden speech. I hope to respond to this courtesy by avoiding controversy. This is something that I do not always find too easy to do, and some of the remarks made by hon. Members opposite have tempted me very much to enter into controversy. However, controversy without opposition is a sterile and worthless thing, and I will resist these temptations. The second tradition of this House, which I have very great pleasure in following, is that by which the new Member can pay tribute to his predecessor. For me to do this is no idle exercise, because in Harold Hayman I had a predecessor who was admired and respected on both sides of the House. I knew Harold Hayman for eight to nine years and had the pleasure of working with him. I know that the respect and admiration in which he was held in this House was felt equally in his own division and home county of Cornwall. He was Cornish born and bred and he was respected by numbers of people, including many who did not support him politically but admired him as a man. Harold Hayman was a good and kindly man. He was conscientious and considerate and compassionate in everything that he did. I hope that his record will be my example in everything that I do in this House. There was only one tragedy in Harold Hayman's political career, and that was the way in which he gave all that he could for his political beliefs and  the way in which eventually he gave his health and his life. By doing this work that meant so much to him—his work for the Labour Party, for his constituency and for his county, and above all his work in Parliament—he affected his health. He loved this House, and it was an irony that his devotion to the proceedings and practices of Parliament played a part in ending his political career. I hope that if on occasions I may seem to be a little over-enthusiastic for Parliamentary reform, it is because, although Harold Hayman was not the first to pay this price, I would like to think that he might be the last. This afternoon's debate is on the problems of transport, and it is interesting to look around the Chamber to see the very high proportion of Members on both sides of the House who represent South-West England. This shows the importance we attach to this topic. The development of an effective transport system is essential if we are to have economic expansion and if social progress is to be maintained over the whole of the country. The development of an integrated transport system is especially important in the regions, in those parts of our country that have been neglected for far too long. This social and industrial neglect is not something of recent years, of the last 17 months or the 13 years before that. It is something which has been going on for 50, 60 or even more years. In the transport sphere we are facing in the far South-West, particularly in the counties of Devon and Cornwall, an exceedingly difficult problem, demanding an urgent solution. I want to argue the case for the South-West not from a purely parochial standpoint or on the emotional basis which is all too often put forward. I want to look at the problems we are facing in the South-West from a realistic and factual point of view. There are special factors which have to be faced in this area. The first is the size of the region, which is a large and straggly one. From one end of our region to the other is as far as from London to Carlisle. This is a big region, and I am afraid that all too often people in London, in Westminster, do not realise the size of it. The second   special factor in our region is the distribution of population and industry. Unlike many other of the peripheral parts of the country, there are concentrations of population and of industry in distant parts of the region. For example, Plymouth is the largest isolated city in England, and it is a long way down the line. The constituency that I have the honour to represent, Falmouth and Camborne, is an isolated industrial community, situated further from other industrial communities than possibly any other in the United Kingdom. The way in which there are concentrations of population and industry at the far end of the region is quite different from the distribution of population and industry in areas such as Wales and Scotland, and other parts of England, where concentrations of population and industry are nearer to other concentrations. This is an extra reason why these special factors have to be considered when talking about the South-West. The third special factor is that the southwest of England, and Cornwall in particular, is one of the most popular holiday resorts in the United Kingdom. I hope that in the years to come it will be one of the most popular holiday resorts in Europe, because we should like to welcome many more tourists from overseas. The problem we face every summer, when millions of tourists flow into our region, is that of congestion on the roads and overcrowding on the railways—the problem of access to a comparatively small region down a long corridor of roads and railways. It will not be very long, we are beginning to find it already, before we shall be reading in our papers and hearing on the television, stories, sometimes exaggerated, of congestion on the roads and vast queues of cars. We had this dreadful bottleneck on the Exeter bypass, but I will not go into the problems of that bypass in any detail. It is something that I should prefer to leave to that good lady whom I believe I should now call the hon. Member for Exeter (Mrs. Gwyneth Dunwoody). These are the reasons why I think that the problems of the South-West deserve special consideration. I want to say a few words about some of the things that I think should be done, and  I want to talk first about the roads in our region. Although there have been welcome improvements in the A-class roads in recent years, we have seen the South-West increasingly lagging behind the rest of the country. As the motorway programme has developed—I welcome it—in the Midlands, the North Country and the South-East, the contrast between road conditions in those areas and the conditions in the South-West has become greater and greater. I believe that we must demand, as a minimum, a road up to first-class dual carriageway standards extending throughout the region. We ought to look into the more distant future and realise that a time will come when a road to motorway standards into the far South-West will be essential. In asking for a road to dual carriageway standards throughout the region, I would add that I should like to see it being built from one end of the region to the other, so that we do not have little bits of dual carriageway interspersed with the original road. As a motorist who drives a considerable amount in the region, I find that this continual alteration between dual carriageway and original road is a source of irritation and, I believe, a danger to motorists. We have heard a great deal today about the problems of the railways in Britain. Those problems in the far South-West are all perhaps exaggerated by our geographical isolation. I welcome the sense of change and the new progressive attitude that we are seeing from the Minister. I welcome the fact that social and economic considerations seem to be taken increasingly into account, and that we no longer look at railways purely from a crude commercial point of view. But we must not blind ourselves to the magnitude of the problem. We can see this perhaps more clearly from the other end of England than some people can from Westminster. In the far South-West the morale of the workers on the railways is very low indeed. There are doubts on the part of not only railwaymen but railways users about the future of the railway system in our part of the country. I implore the Minister to outline as quickly as she can the new approach that I think is becoming increasingly evident towards the problem of branch lines in the area. Perhaps   equally important, she should give us her views on what I believe to be the vital importance of guaranteeing the continuation of the main line west of Plymouth into the indefinite future. Rumours—unsubstantiated rumours, I believe—continually come to the ears of those who are active in the political world in the far South-West about the survival of the main line. I have talked about road services and railways. I come now to the problem of the integration of transport. I look forward confidently to the integration of transport being converted in the next few years from a political slogan into a reality. Looking at it from the point of view of the South-West, if integration of transport is to be a reality we must think a great deal more about air transport. It seems illogical that domestic air services do not appear to come within the responsibilities of the Minister of Transport. I am particularly concerned because the only regular service that we had in the south-west of England has suddenly apparently folded up within the last fortnight. There appear to be economic reasons for this. However, if private enterprise has failed to provide what I consider to be an essential social service to our region I should like to think it possible for the Government to stimulate one of the public corporations to step in. The road services, the rail services, and, I think, increasingly the air services are the arteries on which our economy will depend. It is through those arteries that industrial and social progress must go. In my previous occupation, which ended a few weeks ago, I learnt that when one obstructs arteries one causes gangrene. We do not want industrial and social gangrene in Cornwall. What we want is an effective, modern transport system which will enable us both to contribute to and to share in the prosperity and progress that will be Britain's in years to come.
