gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time that I have had the privilege of addressing this House and I would ask hon. Members to extend to me the generosity which they are always so ready to extend to those who speak here for the first time. I should not have sought to do so had I not been able to bring a point of view to the debate which, perhaps, is slightly different from those of hon. and learned Gentlemen who have spoken earlier, namely, that of the country solicitor who is operating the Legal Aid Scheme. I wish to say how valuable an experience it has been for me to listen to this debate and to obtain the reaction of Queen's Counsel, and others more experienced than I am in the law, to this important subject. As has been said, the best way to become ""the Ruler of the Queen's Navee"" is to polish up the handle of the big front door of the lawyer's office. In my experience, one needs to go to the bottom of the ladder rather than to the top to find where the shoe pinches. There are one or two things I wish to say about the Bill, which I heartily welcome. I start on the very controversial point in Clause 2, the amount of remuneration which a lawyer ought to have. I disclaim at once any personal interest in this, because every case I have taken under such legislation has been a complete loss. I wonder whether people generally understand the great complexity of the organisation of the solicitors' branch of the profession. Here, in London, there are large firms with fifteen or more partners and detailed specialisation in every branch of the law. To such a firm one, two or ten cases of this type are a mere incident in its professional progress, but in the country one finds it rare to have a partnership firm of more than five partners. When one goes into a country town such as that in which I practise, one finds that the average firm consists of one, two, or at the most, three partners. Such   a firm is engaged almost entirely in conveyancing, family advice and buying and selling property. A case handled by such a firm going to assizes or the High Court is a major operation. It is a complete upheaval of the steady tenor of that office. It will be appreciated that in many cases firms of that kind have no managing clerks or articled clerks to collect evidence, which is one of the things that clients apparently expect one to do, and they have no means, other than the principal personally giving his time, of doing proper justice to the cases which their clients bring to them. May I also point out to the House that the travelling problems in the country are utterly different from those in London. The town in which I practise is 15 miles from the nearest assize town and 40 miles from the divorce registry to which our affairs have been allotted. It is not just a question of popping out of Lincoln's Inn into the Law Courts and being back again in one's office within ten minutes. In having to attend before the district registrar in chambers, 40 miles away, an entire day's professional earnings are gone. This not only means that one may lose money, but that one gets behind in one's work, which no conscientious solicitor likes to do, and he may perhaps have to neglect some other client's business which is equally deserving. I wonder whether the Government have given sufficient attention to this type of country practice in considering the recommendations which they have had. To such a firm, its duty under this Act can only cost it money, whereas a large firm, which is well-equipped to organise and undertake work of a character which ends in the High Court, may even make a profit out of the 85 per cent. costs. I therefore ask the learned Solicitor-General to say whether he can hold out some hope that this question may be gone into again. I ask this, too, for another reason. Let us get clear what is the true basis of asking a solicitor today to work for less than the proper fees. Is it because he is working for the Government? I shall put a case which may perhaps be shot down as reductio ad absurdum. Let us suppose that we have a train in which there is a Cabinet Minister, or someone even more eminent. Would we say to  the engine driver, ""You must work that day for 85 per cent. of your trade union wages because you are privileged to convey a member of the Government behind you""? I suggest that if one did that the train would move just about as fast as the trains are moving today. There is no logical justification in asking a profession to work for less than its proper fee. It is not done in any other profession as regards the Government or local authorities. Merely because services are rendered people should not be paid less than the economic value of their services. The person who renders this service should not be compelled willy-nilly to share the loss. In that sense, one has a feeling that 85 per cent. is a compromise between the days when the legal profession worked willingly for nothing and the alternative to paying the full value for its services. Like all compromises, there comes a time when this has to be able to stand in the light of day, supported by logical and ethical arguments. Turning to Clause 3 of the Bill, I ask the Government to have another look at it, and, in particular, I want to discuss the liability of a solicitor advising a would-be applicant for legal aid in divorce. As we all know, a solicitor in a divorce case has a double responsibility. He has a responsibility to the client who consults him to give his best advice to that client and he has the responsibility to the State to ensure that in divorce—which, as we all appreciate, in the law is a quasi-criminal matter, in which the State has a direct interest—that interest is duly observed in the presentation of the case. In my experience, this means that even before an application can be properly submitted to the legal aid committee, the solicitor, if he does his job properly, has to do exactly the same amount of work that he would have to do in presenting and preparing that case for court. It may be that he will not be the solicitor who will take the case. If he fails in his duty in advising the applicant to see that what he seeks is put down correctly for the legal aid committee, he may unknowingly involve the firm of solicitors who ultimately conduct the case in difficulties in which, had they known the full facts, they would not have encountered. I feel that in divorce it is possible to take too slender a view of one's responsibilities. Nearly all these cases come to a solicitor before going to the legal aid tribunal and every incentive should be given to ensure that the case, before it reaches the stage where the brief is prepared, receives the most careful consideration and attention. The position is, of course, that the solicitor is either not paid at all for doing that work, or, if he wishes, he can send in his bill, but often the people concerned are unable to pay it and often he does not send in a bill because he would be ashamed to do so. I ask that that situation may be reconsidered. I should like to make one other suggestion on the question of legal advice in additional courts. This is a matter which particularly concerns my constituency, Brierley Hill, where the urban district council has recently obtained an order permitting it to acquire a large insanitary area of the town, as the result of which compensation is now payable to the persons evicted. I have had the embarrassment of three of my constituents asking me whether the advice which they had received from local solicitors about compensation they have been offered is correct. Naturally, I have been unable to give an adequate reply. The situation has emerged that in some of these cases the sum which has been offered, owing to the zeal with which the district valuers prosecute the interests of the Government, is very slender. We all know that there is an appeal in these matters to the Lands Tribunal, in London, but we often find that the cost of going there will exceed the compensation which will be received. No doubt some would say that an injustice is being done. We cannot take away the homes of people for the site value, or little more, because their homes have to be abolished in the interests of social progress. I say that an appeal from the district valuer to the Lands Tribunal merits the assistance of legal aid. I hope that these and other grounds referred to by hon. and learned Members who have spoken will engage the Government's sympathetic consideration. Finally, I want to say how well, in my experience, the Legal Aid Act has worked and is working. The principle is not in dispute. This Bill is required  only to march with the times and to tidy up the odds and ends. I can testify to the immense amount of social good which the Legal Aid Act has done. I am sure that in our further consideration of it we shall produce a fully up-to-date code which will satisfy the need of the people who require legal aid.
