gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Manchester, Blackley (Mr. Eastham) on his maiden speech. I only hope that I manage to cross the hurdle as well and as satisfactorily as the hon. Gentleman. I also thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye on Budget day. It will certainly make by birthday this year a very memorable occasion. I have been impressed with the staff of the House and with the friendliness shown to new Members by Members on both sides of the House. I understand that it is the tradition in a maiden speech to pay tribute to one's predecessor. No doubt that is easier in some instances than in others. I am fortunate in that respect as my predecessor, Richard Wood, was much liked and respected throughout his constituency. In the few weeks that I have been in the House I have found that these feelings are shared by Members on both sides of the House. He had an excellent war record but was unfortunately severely disabled by the loss of both legs. A lesser man would have retired to his beloved Yorkshire countryside. Richard made light of his disability to such an extent that many people in his constituency thought he had lost the use of only one leg. Richard Wood entered Parliament as the first Member for the new constituency of Bridlington in 1950. The son of a former Foreign Secretary, he obtained high office, serving as Minister of Pensions and National Insurance, Minister of Overseas Development, Minister of Power and as a member of the Privy Council. By his example he has been a constant inspiration to the disabled throughout the country to overcome their disabilities. I am grateful for the kindness and friendship Richard Wood has shown me over the past six years. He is indeed a fine English gentleman and I am sure   all hon. Members will join me in wishing him every success in his new business venture, which involves providing employment for disabled people. I consider myself fortunate to have succeeded Richard Wood and become the Member for Bridlington. It is without doubt the finest constituency in the country. It is one of the longest constituencies in England, with a coastline 70 miles long, and at the centre where I live it is only two miles wide. Tourism is an important industry and Bridlington is one of the finest resorts in the country. I cannot say that it is the finest resort—if I did I would upset my constituents in the delightful seaside towns of Filey, Hornsea and Withernsea. Agriculture is our most important industry. In Holderness we have some of the most fertile and productive land in Britain. It is said that we have more pigs than people. However, that will not continue unless the Government act quickly to enable our pig farmers to compete on equal terms with the pig farmers in the EEC. To do that they will have to obtain the reform of the method of calculating MCAs, which is heavily biased against the United Kingdom producer. We have an important and growing inshore fishing industry and we are looking to the Government to maintain the 12-mile exclusive limit and obtain preferential limits up to 50 miles. Apart from the large BP chemical plant, we depend for employment in the Bridlington constituency on small businesses. We have a very high level of unemployment. I welcome the measures proposed today by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to encourage the expansion of small businesses. I am particularly pleased with his taxation proposals. The Budget is bold and imaginative. As the Chancellor said, it is only the first step in a fundamental change of direction. If it does not encourage the entrepreneurs, the small and medium-sized business men, to invest and provide more jobs, nothing will and Britain's future will be bleak. I welcome my right hon. and learned Friend's undertaking to reform the capital gains and capital transfer taxes, which weigh so heavily on small businesses. If we are to solve our unemployment prob-  lem in Bridlington, the Government will have to take action to change the farcical situation where Bridlington, with an unemployment rate of twice the national average, is not a development area but is surrounded by the development area of Scarborough and Hull, with a much lower unemployment level. Although I fully support the Government's proposals to cut public expenditure, I welcome their emphasis on the protection of the realm. I support the increased expenditure on defence. There is, however, one aspect of the protection of the realm that seems to have been ignored, namely, the prevention of parts of our country from disappearing by being washed away. Coast erosion is a major problem in my constituency. On the Holderness coast over 2½ metres of land are lost every year. Nothing has been done to protect the coast in rural areas. Responsibility for coast protection comes within the 1949 legislation and rests with the maritime district council, in my constituency principally Holderness but to a lesser extent North Wolds. Holderness is a small rural district council with a low rate base and it cannot possibly contend with the problem. Government grants are limited to protection works in urban areas because the Ministry considers that coast protection of agricultural land is not cost effective. That might seem logical to a bureaucrat sitting in an office in London. However, if a farmer sees some of his best land disappear every year into the sea it is a different matter. The loss is cumulative every year. In my constituency we are losing 30 acres a year. There are two additional danger points that the Ministry does not seem to have taken into consideration. At certain points along the coast, at Sand-le-Mere, Kilnsea and Barmston, where the hinterland is below the high-water mark, there is a dange of the sea breaking through. As the fall of the land is inland, that could result in thousands of acres of good farm land being flooded. That would be serious for many fanners who could be put out of business and it could result in a substantial loss of food production. If the land flooded by salt water were subsequently redrained, it would cost a lot of money to bring it back into production. The Yorkshire water authority is responsible for building the flood   banks, but that is only a short-term palliative because they in turn will be washed into the sea. The second danger point is at Spurn peninsula at the mouth of the Humber where the sea defences were maintained by the military until the early 1960s. Since then they have been allowed to fall into a state of disrepair. At Spurn there is imminent danger of the sea breaking through the narrow land and turning Spurn into an island. That could result in the mud flats that protect the flood banks on the northern banks of the Humber being washed away with, again, flooding of thousands of acres of good agricultural land. More important, it could affect the navigation in the Humber and, consequently, the port of Hull. The Humberside county council, of which I was the leader, approached the previous Government and invited the hon. Member for Manchester, Gorton (Mr. Marks), a Minister in the previous Government, to visit the area and see the problem on the ground. We thought that it would be advantageous if he saw the problem from the air. We hired a helicopter. Unfortunately, as often happens in the United Kindom, the weather was appalling and the helicopter could not get off the ground. Therefore, the Minister was not able to get a bird's eye view. The protection of our coast is not a local problem; it is a national problem. It should be financed by the Government. Small rural maritime districts do not have the resources to deal with it. It is ridiculous that flooding caused by coast erosion is dealt with by the water board, yet coast protection is dealt with by the district council. The responsibility should be with one body, the national Government. Immediate action must be taken at Spurn, to protect the prosperity of Hull. The long-term problem could be solved if we reclaimed the land inside Spurn Head. That would provide several thousand additional acres of agricultural land. If this had been Holland, that would have been done 30 years ago. Action must also be taken where the hinterland is below sea level. I am the first to admit that there is no easy answer to this problem. But it would be money well spent if some of the Government's oil revenues could be spent on more widespread experimental work and on non-  traditional methods of coast protection, which could have national implications and, if successful, would be more effective than traditional methods. There is one certainty. We shall not obtain any more land as a commodity. Let us guard what we have. It is precious.
