gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I support the amendment and the clause   on the functions of the Co-operative Development Agency. I do so, first, because the Agency is particularly relevant and important to my constituents, secondly, because I represent here both the Co-operative Party and the Labour Party, and, thirdly, because, in view of the current parliamentary situation and the votes this week, I think it better to get a maiden speech in while I still have time. In doing so I begin the difficult task of trying to fill the gap left by my predecessor, Marcus Lipton. He was one of those rare Members who managed to gain and keep for more than 30 years the respect and affection of the House and his constituents. He was in many ways a Front Bencher of the first rank, someone who regarded a seat in this Chamber not as a springboard to office but as a platform from which he was privileged to defend the interests of his constituents for the many years that he was here. In my conversations with me he prided himself on being a House of Commons man. Sitting here during the last few weeks I have thought many times how much he would have wanted to join in some of the recent debates. As someone who fought to save the old English ""tanner"", he would have relished the fight to save the old English mile, even though it would mean crossing swords with the not so old English Secretary of State for Transport. As the Member who in this Chamber named Kim Philby as the third man and then had to wait eight years before he was shown to have been right, he would have appreciated the point made in our debate last week about privilege—that very often the most effective and historic use of privilege is made when a great majority of other hon. Members feel that it is being misused. But he was perhaps best known for his ability to espouse outlandish causes. The most famous of those was his idea that the backsides of the cows in Epping Forest should be painted with luminous paint to enable motorists to avoid them. I think that the sacred cows of British officialdom would have needed a lot more than luminous paint to avoid frequent collisions with Marcus Lipton. He revelled in his skill as a debunker of pomposity and a fighter against red tape.  Of course, bashing the bureaucrats is a fairly easy occupation in British public life, but Marcus Lipton's great gift was his ability to debunk himself, to laugh at himself if ever he showed any sign of too-great self-importance. The best example of this was when the constituency's local paper, the South London Press, asked him a few months before he died why he was going to retire. He said that he had gone into a pub in Brixton and he had overheard two pensioners complaining about something and saying ""If Marcus Lipton was alive they would not be able to get away with it."" But it is very much my job to ensure that they still do not get away with it. I represent a constituency that has many problems. It is no coincidence that when the last Government studied the problems of the inner cities they chose Lambeth for their major study in London and that when this Government announced their inner urban policy, the only borough in London to have an exclusive partnership arrangement was Lambeth. The statistics speak for themselves: 3,000 unemployed in the constituency; 18,000 on the housing list of the borough of which the constituency forms a part; an infant mortality rate 25 per cent. above the national average and 17 per cent. of families have only a single parent. The people of Camberwell, Brixton, Clapham and Stockwell, which make up my constituency, are not demoralised by all these problems. They did not send men here to Westminster to organise a weep-in for the inner cities, with a handkerchief in one hand and a begging bowl in the other. It would be disastrous if the cities of Britain became yet another depressed region competing for a slice of the regional aid cake. We want some Government help, particularly with social problems. Our problems and the statistics I have just outlined justify that, but we want also to help ourselves. That is why the Bill and the Co-operative Development Agency are so important. The inner cities of Britain desperately need a revival of their local economies, the creation of jobs, the creation of demand, and the creation of wage packets rather than giro cheques. Large private enterprise manufacturing firms which   began their lives in the inner cities have been taken over, often by multinationals, and have moved out to green field sites at home or abroad leaving former employees jobless, without any alternative work. We are not content to sit back and wait for a general economic upsurge to bring investment back to our areas. We look now to small firms with local roots to provide jobs. We want to help existing firms to be encouraged to expand. We want to start new ones. The ideal form of small local firm with local roots, harnessing local knowledge, enthusiasm and commitment, is a co-operative created and owned by local working people. The problems that workers in many small firms face—unnecessarily low wages and poor working conditions—are automatically solved. The workers in a co-operative cannot be tempted away to a green field site, nor become asset strippers, because the only assets they have are their jobs and their determination to keep them. When times are bad and the ecenomy is in trouble, they have no alternative but to stay and fight to keep their firm in existence. In rebuilding the economy of the inner cities we want to build something better than that which was there before: greater job security; local reinvestment of profits, with industrial democracy as well as commercial viability. We want a local economy in which there is much more social ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange. This Bill will enable us to use the one resource which has not yet been used by any Government in reviving the inner cities: the ingenuity and intelligence of the people who live there and want to work there and to be in control of their own working lives. I have not so far mentioned the one aspect of the constituency which is the one which most commentators mention first: the fact that one quarter of my constituents are black. The multiracial society which we have in Lambeth is not a problem: it is a strength, because from that diversity will come many of the ingredients of the solutions to our own economic problems. I give one example very relevant to this Bill. Many of my constituents who came  long ago from the West Indies brought with them their knowledge and experience of membership of credit unions, which are a form of financial co-operative which I believe will have an important role in the Britain of the future, and in the inner cities in particular, to ensure that local financial resources are used locally and not drained away by the commercial banks. There is a great interest in my constituency and in the neighbouring area in co-operatives in both production and housing. Some old-established ones are flourishing; some new ones are trying to get off the ground. This Bill and the Co-operative Development Agency which it will set up will enable the co-operative movement to play its vital role in giving the working people of Britain's cities one means—and there must be many others—to fight their unemployment and to build, most importantly of all by their own efforts, a better and more equal society for themselves and for their children.
