gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is my privilege, with the hon. Member for Itchen (Dr. King), to represent Southampton, and I should like to use the occasion of my maiden speech to refer to Mr. Ralph Morley, who represented the Itchen Division until the General Election and whose death occurred on Tuesday of this week. Mr. Morley, I know, had many friends in the House. He bore an extremely painful illness most courageously for a long while, and I am sure that hon. Members would like me to express on their behalf the sympathy they feel with his friends and relatives in Southampton. In this brief reference I should like to pay my own tribute to the work which Mr. Morley did in this House on behalf of Southampton, and also on behalf of the teaching profession of which he was a member. As I represent Southampton, I hope that I shall be excused if I inject into this economic debate a reference to the shipping industry. As we all know, the shipping industry makes a major contribution to the economy of this country. Not only is it a considerable dollar earner, but it contributes in a large measure to our invisible exports both directly and also through the complementary services of insurance and banking. It may be inadvisable of me today to make any reference to the adverse effect of the dock strike on our exports. I know that hon. Members will have read with concern the news that the ""Queen Mary"" was unable to sail from Southampton for New York today as scheduled, owing to an unofficial strike which affects some of the members of  the crew. The passengers have been disembarked and have returned to London by rail. In Southampton, we are very proud of the ""Queens""—the ""Queen Elizabeth"" and the ""Queen Mary""—and we feel that they occupy a place in shipping which is second to none. I am sure that hon. Members will agree when I express the hope that the differences at present existing will soon be resolved; otherwise, it may well be that the prestige which we enjoy in the North Atlantic passenger trade through our fine liners, particularly with the Americans, may be seriously undermined. My main purpose in speaking tonight is to talk about co-partnership and profit sharing, for the simple reason that I have long believed in co-partnership and profit-sharing schemes over the widest possible area. In fact, I believe it to be the solution to the problems of industry, certainly a solution which would bring happy industrial relations, if we could put these schemes on a proper footing. Many concerns already share their profits. They may not share them out of the balance of profit and loss account at the end of the year, but, in fact, they share these profits at a much earlier stage. They share them at the point where they are earned, at the machine or on the work bench, through payments under bonus and incentive schemes. That is the way in which profits are already shared in industry. I welcome the oblique reference in the Gracious Speech to co-partnership and profit sharing and also the subsequent references to the same subject. But l think that it is time we recognised the extent and the degree to which profit sharing already exists in industry. In my profession—I am a chartered accountant —we see a good deal of what is, I believe, known on a popular television programme as the ""end product"" of industry. We see the profit and loss accounts and the balance sheets of successful businesses; and the statement of affairs of those which are not so successful, those which, perhaps, require our ministrations as liquidators and receivers. Generally speaking, in prosperous business there is a high degree of confidence between management and workers. Where things have gone wrong it is   almost an invariable rule that that confidence has been destroyed and permanently lost. I believe confidence to be important, that it is of major importance in human relationships; and nowhere is it more important than in industrial relations, particularly in the relations between management and workpeople. I believe that this confidence can be fostered by an extension of profit-sharing and co-partnership schemes of all kinds, whether piecework schemes, bonus and incentive payments, pension schemes, full co-partnership, or schemes which embrace employee shareholdings as part of the set-up. I believe also that these schemes can be successful if there is a full and frank exchange of information; if everyone in a firm is taken into the confidence of the management, and allowed to see the figures, and generally to have an idea of what policy is being followed. I believe that to be the key to harmonious relations in industry. It is the key to rising output at competitive prices. It is only by schemes of this sort that we can bring about a substantial increase in exports with a comparable substantial increase in our standard of living over the next few years. There is a discordant note which is very evident in industry today. It arises from a failure to understand how profits are being shared. There is a feeling throughout industry that profits are not being shared out fairly. This discordant note is all too frequently amplified by ill-informed critics. The sooner we reach the point where the rôle of profits and their distribution among those who create them is fully understood, the sooner we shall reach that pitch of efficiency which will enable our standard of living to rise substantially. As I see it, our problem consists of reconciling the interests of the three partners in industry—management, the workpeople at the bench, and the investors. It also consists of introducing a method of job evaluation so that propel rewards can be given for skill and for responsibility. Such dissatisfaction, to which I have referred, as exists today is not only confined to suspicion about profits out of which dividends are paid. It relates also to dissatisfaction over the rewards for skill, and a feeling that differentials are being whittled away and that the margin separating the skilled  and the unskilled worker is disappearing. That is causing trouble in industry, quite apart from the suspicion about the sharing of profits. My belief is that as soon as skill and responsibility is properly appreciated we shall make a definite move towards the introduction of full and comprehensive profit-sharing schemes—comprehensive right from the workbench to the shareholder. That is the ideal for which we must strive. The task is to re-think our industrial relations in the modern conditions of full employment and expansion. It is to be hoped that a lead will be given by the Government. Reference was made to this today by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I hope that he will give a lead to both sides of industry in setting up the necessary machinery to think out this problem together. One of our favourite occupations as a nation is cutting up the national cake. I am hopeful that, if profit-sharing schemes are introduced, we shall have the ingredients for a larger national cake so that the slices may be bigger. I am sure that this can he achieved by the expression of good will on all sides. I hope that both sides of industry will co-operate and that all concerned will show a great measure of understanding and good will in discussing this problem, which, after all, is vital to the interests of this country. If we approach it in that way, I hope that the expression which I have just used, ""both sides of industry,"" will gradually become old-fashioned, and, finally, obsolete.
