gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you very much, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for the honour you have done me in allowing me to speak this evening on what I consider to be a non-controversial subject. Certainly I think we   can all accept the peroration of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) this afternoon when he said that he felt it was the desire of all hon. Members to do the greatest good to the greatest number in the Forces. We certainly accept that as our wish. It seems to me that many of the hon. Members on the benches opposite have assumed that nothing at all has been done so far in this matter of demobilisation and, indeed, it is they who speak in terms of gloom about the progress which has been made. May I remind them that when the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour first spoke on demobilisation in September he was giving us information which was based largely on the situation which existed before the close of the Japanese war. As a result of that statement we were all made very much aware that this subject of demobilisation would be a controversial one in the Forces, and since then we have had to reckon with many letters. Many hon. Members on this side of the House were very concerned during the Recess, and had consultations with the Minister of Labour, as a result of which, and of a very thorough investigation of all the problems, we were happy to note that when the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour made his statement in early October, considerable progress had been made, and that an additional 400,000 men were to be released from the Forces by the end of this year. Let us acknowledge that, but let us not believe that the speed-up in demobilisation must end there, because many anomalies still exist to which many hon. Members have referred this afternoon. One of those anomalies which weighs most heavily upon me, and upon many of my constituents, is that which exists in the Royal Air Force, and I can perhaps speak a little more intimately of that than can some hon. Members who have spoken here to-day. The Royal Air Force feels that the recent speed-up has been at its expense, and it points out that whereas there is an increase until the end of this year, the ratio seriously decreases in June of next year. The Air Force points to the fact that in June of next year it will be 17 groups behind the Royal Navy in demobilisation, and is uneasy on this matter. Recently I had occasion to visit several Air Force squadrons in South Italy and I found that they were all very con-  cerned about the delay in demobilisation next year. Some of us heard the reply which the Under-Secretary of State for Air gave recently to this question, and I must say that I was not entirely convinced. The two answers he gave were that the Air Force had been chosen to take on the problems of occupation because it would be more economical for squadrons of aircraft to carry out this work than divisions of infantry. Now it is clear to us that to some extent that must be an exaggeration, in that it does not pay any respect whatsoever to the fact that we are now confronted with the discovery of the atomic bomb and, if it is a police force in the air you are looking for, a few Mosquitos with a few atomic bombs can carry out any job of policing Europe or elsewhere. The second reason given was the question of transportation. We were told that many bombers would be converted to transport aircraft, and that all of these would be used to bring back as many men from the East as possible. We were told that, in fact, the Air Force was taking on the greatest job of transportation in history—1,000,000 men would be brought back before next June. In deciding on this it appears that the contribution which might have been made by the Royal Navy has been somewhat overlooked, for, though we are told that aircraft carriers and other fleet units will be used when returning to home waters to transport Servicemen, we are not given information as to how they are making use of all their resources. If, in fact, the Air Force is making use of bombers and coastal command aircraft and others, can we ask the Government to explain to us whether it is using all those many small craft which were taken out there and which should surely now be returning? Can they, in fact, adapt these small craft, such as L.C.I.'s, tank landing craft, and others, for purposes of short relay services? If the Admiralty would undertake some responsibility in connection with the increased numbers required to be brought home, then it might relieve the pressure on the Royal Air Force, and that would be received with acclamation at the present time. I wish to turn now to the question of officer deferment. Recently I visited the Army Commander of the South Italian Command and spoke to him on this matter. He said, ""In my headquarters   I have four majors and seven captains. At the present rate of release I shall have, by the beginning of November, one major and three captains."" He further said, ""I cannot carry on my administrative work with a depleted staff, because I do not see where reliefs for these men are coming from."" The problem is there, and we all recognise it as great. Nevertheless, was that the way in which we staffed our Services back in 1940–41? I remember that I came into the Royal Air Force at a time when officers were being recruited at the rate of 500 a week and that we were being trained for our administrative jobs and special duties inside one month. There does not seem to be the same urgency now to find officers to take on these administrative jobs. I believe that at the end of this year there will be 160,000 officers in the Army. I cannot accept the suggestion that that represents too few for administrative purposes in our areas of occupation. So I seriously ask the Government to think again about the deferment of officers in certain groups, which is causing very serious concern to them and to their relatives. Several Members have referred to-day to the contribution which could be made to the demobilisation problem by an early statement on post-war conditions in the Forces. I, too, believe that that would be a considerable contribution. I see in many Air Force stations posters saying, ""Join the Regular Air Force,"" but that is only the beginning of publicity. The men concerned want to know what sort of Regular Air Force it will be. They have not been told yet. I would like the Secretary of State for Air to let us know as soon as possible many things with regard to our future Air Force, and other responsible Ministers to let us know the same things with regard to the Army and Navy. In the Air Force particularly there are many young men who came straight from school and who were among the ""few,"" who would be prepared, I feel sure, to join the Regular Air Force if they understood what their conditions of service were to be. Can I ask the Government to let us know in regard to all the Services what will be the conditions, pay and promotion, and what opportunities there will be for establishing the rank which they now hold? Are they going to lose their  acting ranks? What is to be the position with regard to overseas tours and periods on home stations and—very important—what are to be the family arrangements? Will they be allowed to take their families with them? Are there to be married quarters in the barracks? What educational opportunities will there be for their children? If you told them these things I have no doubt that many would not hesitate to remain in the regular Service, and in that way make a contribution towards solving the demobilisation problem. To turn to the question of Class B releases, I do not believe that it has been the success which the Government hoped it would be. The responsibility for that is largely their own. I find from my experience of Class B releases—and the applicants are nearly all building operatives—that there is, for some reason, a hold-up. I had a case the other day of a man who applied in June for release. I heard two days ago that his case had been reconsidered, and that he would be released. But, in fact, his release under Class A occurs in three weeks' time, so would he not be extremely foolish to accept Class B release, with all the disqualifications that that includes? Of course, he has asked to be released under Class A. In the meantime, considerable work has been done in some Department with regard to his release, all of which has been lost. I therefore ask the Government to consider expediting the procedure of Class B releases. I would be glad to see an arrangement whereby men could apply to their own units and applications were sorted out at headquarters, so that when a Department required releases they could apply to one of the Service Departments and get 10, 20, 50 or 100 at a time. The whole machinery is too cumbersome, and must either be improved or thrown overboard altogether. I would go so far as to open demobilisation at once to all men in the Forces who can make a contribution to our building work. I would be glad to say to all men who can do a job of work in the building industry, ""We will give you demobilisation now if you will take it, under terms of Class A release."" Then we would be making an urgent contribution towards the solution of our housing problem. I believe that the Services are anxious to get all the information they can with regard to demobilisation, but I do not   think they are getting it. I was astounded to find that at some C.M.F. stations I visited I could not get more recent information than was to be found in newspapers 10 days old—and then they were not always the right kind of newspaper. I was anxious to read a statement made by the Minister of Labour on 2nd October, but I had to go to many messes to find it, and it was not until 10th October that I finally saw what he said. The Services must undertake to let men in the Forces know what their plans are, because I am convinced that if we can talk to them, explain our problems and show we recognise theirs we will have them on our side in this question of demobilisation.
