gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It would be against the natural laws, I feel, for a Scot  working in the City of London not to make his maiden speech on the Budget, and therefore I rise to ask for the indulgence of the Committee. Both in his speech in this House and particularly on the wireless, the Chancellor stressed the very great importance of maintaining full employment. In that objective all hon. Members and the whole country will be behind him. Hon. Members will recollect that my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition, when he was Prime Minister, set up a committee on which hon. Members of all parties served with the express objective of making plans for maintaining full employment after the war. The necessity for full employment is generally agreed. On Wednesday, I think, it was, I listened to conflicting views on the efficacy of the plans of Lord Keynes for maintaining full employment. Some people thought that Lord Keynes's ideas would be successful, while others had some doubts on the subject. I, personally, am a strong believer in Lord Keynes's theories, but I feel that they apply essentially to times when unemployment is due to a lack of purchasing power. To-day those conditions do not persist, and the Chancellor must have had the support of people of all opinions throughout the country when he drew special attention to the fact that the greatest danger of unemployment to-day lay in the possibility of our being unable to buy the necessary raw materials with which to keep the wheels of industry turning. The right hon. and learned Gentleman's actual words were: We must therefore avoid any development of inflationary tendencies which would prevent us from obtaining by importation the raw materials without which our programme of increasing production and full employment would collapse in ruins.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 18th April, 1950; Vol. 474, c. 49.] When the pound was devalued in September last, that by itself, regardless of the necessity for it, made it more difficult for us to import raw materials from the dollar area, particularly, it seems to me, owing to the arbitrary and artificial rate at which the exchange was fixed. There were full reasons why we went to a figure of 2.80 dollars to the pound, but the question I now wish to ask is: have conditions not changed sufficiently to allow the Chancellor to consider whether a greater flexibility in the rate of exchange would not be in the national interest at the present time? I am not suggesting for   one moment that we should free the pound completely. It is obvious that we cannot free the exchange entirely because we have to guard against wild movements of what one might call ""funk"" capital, but I feel that if the freedom of the pound were confined to transactions representing movements of goods and services at the present time, it would allow the pound to adjust itself to that extent. In that way, any welcome improvement in our national finances would be reflected in a greater ability to buy raw materials from the dollar area and would remove that great danger to full employment—inability to buy those raw materials. I wish to make a special plea for two particular sections of the community who, I feel, have perhaps been neglected in the Budget. First of all, the married man with a low income. At the present moment, a married man with a wife and two children pays no Income Tax if he is earning less than seven guineas a week. Therefore, the reductions which the Chancellor has been able to make and which we all welcome do not benefit him in the least. Indeed, under this Budget he is worse off because the increases in the Petrol Duty and the 33⅓ per cent. Purchase Tax on commercial vehicles is going to raise the cost of living for him. That being so, I hope the Chancellor will consider shaking out his Budget again and trying to find some compensation that can be given to people in that unfortunate position. The second section of the community for whom I wish to make a special plea are those whom I consider might be paid their Post-war Credits. I endorse what was said by my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, North-West (Mr. Kaberry) with regard to those people who are suffering from incurable diseases, but I should like to add another batch of people who, I feel, ought to be paid their Post-war Credits. They are those coming into estates who are often widows distracted with grief, certainly in appalling financial straits, and often with children. I believe that if the financial path we are treading is so narrow that we cannot step aside to repay Post-war Credits in such circumstances without courting certain death, we had far rather die in the attempt than fail to make the attempt at all.
