gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for having called me to make my maiden speech in this extremely important debate on one of the most significant reforming Bills produced by the Government. The constituency that I represent has been substantially changed by the Boundary Commission. Part of it was represented with great distinction by my hon. Friend the Member for Poole (Mr. Ward). I should like to put on record my thanks to him for the considerable assistance that he has given me in dealing with the problems of the revised constituency. However, the greater part of my constituency was represented for many years with enormous distinction by my predecessor. Sir John Eden. It is customary to pay tribute to one's predecessor, but that task is always made much easier when it can be performed with the pleasure and conviction that I have today. Sir John served the country, the House and his constituents for nearly 30 years in a most distinguished career. He served on, and was the Chairman of, many Standing Committees. He served the nation as a Minister of State, Ministry of Technology, a Minister for Industry and a Minister of Posts and Telecommunicaticns. From the many messages passed to me by my constituents, I know how well he served the constituency and how greatly he will be missed. I can only hope that in my parliamentary career I shall be able to live up to the standards that he has set. My constituency of Bournemouth, West now takes in a substantial part of the borough of Poole. It is the first time that a constituency in my area has crossed the borough boundary. Of course, there has been a traditional, friendly rivalry between the two boroughs of Bournemouth and Poole. However, I am pleased to say that that has not affected matters in my constituency greatly, and that there is a very friendly relationship between us. Taken together, Bournemouth and Poole represent first and foremost a most attractive seaside area, which is one of the premier resorts in the country. The resort enjoys tremendous natural advantages and is surrounded on all sides by beautiful countryside. The towns offer terrific amenities   and there is a wide variety of hotels. Indeed, I was gratified to see how many political parties had already booked their next conferences in Bournemouth. Of course, many changes are taking place in the tourist industry. In my humble opinion the increased popularity of holidays abroad, rather than in Bournemouth, is mistaken. Nowadays, there is a tendency for tourism to relate more to specific activities and to conferences. However, I am pleased to say that Bournemouth and Poole have adapted extremely well to changing circumstances, and can hold their own in competition with all the other major resorts. Indeed, they do rather better than the others, because Bournemouth can offer one of the cleanest beaches in the country. We are in the process of building a substantial new international centre, which will provide facilities both for the town and for conferences held there. The two towns also offer a regional centre for the arts. The theatres, symphony orchestras and visiting ballet companies make them an extremely important regional centre for those interested in such cultural activities. The two towns are also a regional centre for commerce. Many of the major banks, building societies, insurance companies and firms have chosen to relocate there because of the attractiveness of the environment, the range of housing available and the extremely skilled manpower there. The area is linked by good communications, by air, rail, sea—to the port of Poole—and road. Indeed, I hope that we shall proceed quickly with completion of the link from the M3 to the M27, not least because it will enable me to reach my constituency more quickly. The area is also a growing centre for light industry and high technology. Many of the firms are involved in defence and several of them may well be affected by the recently rumoured decision of British Aerospace to contract at Hurn and lay off labour. That is a matter of great concern to my constituents — as many of them work there—as well as to those of my hon. Friend the Member for Christchurch (Mr. Adley). Bournemouth is also a major retirement centre. Indeed, 30·1 per cent. of the population are retired. That is more than double the national average. This presents special problems for the constituency and especially for the elderly who have to live on fixed incomes. We must remember that those elderly people have greater expenses than the rest of us because they cannot carry out for themselves or afford the services which we can. They cannot maintain their own homes and gardens, for example. Therefore, they are forced to employ outside people. This increases their costs greatly. I am worried particularly about the elderly unemployed — those who are over 60 and who perhaps have no prospect of employment again before they reach the retirement age of 65. I hope that the Government will consider raising the capital threshold for supplementary benefit for those people. Some 9,000 people lost benefit in 1980, according to the 1982 DHSS report—only a tiny fraction of the number who would benefit if the threshold were raised for that age group alone. My constituents are anxious about the rating system. They welcome the pledges that the Government made about the rating system, although I think most of them would like to see a little more done. My constituents are also worried about law and order. I am afraid that there is a growing crime wave throughout  the country, from which Bournemouth is not exempt. I make a plea that we should increase the staffing levels and authorised establishment of the Dorset constabulary. As a chartered surveyor, I have taken a keen interest in the progress of the Bill. The areas that have come into my constituency from the borough of Poole are composed substantially of municipal housing and a high proportion of municipal housing already exists within the Bournemouth borough part of the constituency. I am happy to support wholeheartedly the general objectives of the Bill, which I regard as an extremely important extension of democratic freedom. However, I am worried about one or two parts of the Bill—they have been referred to by the hon. Member for Islington, South and Finsbury (Mr. Smith)—which suggest that it would be appropriate for the Secretary of State to make regulations. It seems to me, although I wish to pay a great tribute to all those who have worked in Committee on the Bill, that we need to look much more closely at whether we can enshrine the necessary regulations within the legislation. I believe that that will overcome some of the less well-considered criticisms raised by the Opposition. There are grave difficulties under clause 23 in establishing what the costs would be if repairs had been carried out by the landlord. I do not believe that those difficulties are insuperable, but we should spell them out and deal with them in Committee. However, it is proper that the tenant should first pay, because if there is no obligation on the tenant to pay and then recover that payment, this would greatly reduce a tenant's incentive to ensure that the work has been done well and at a reasonable cost. I am worried by the fact that clause 23 does not take into account the need to prescribe the manner in which the work should be carried out, which could be just as important as the cost. When a group of buildings have been historically decorated or roofed in the same manner or rendered in the same colour, it may cause a great deal of disharmony within a town if tenants in all cases carry out such repairs in any way they think fit, although it may be appropriate in some cases that will be particularly relevant when we deal with listed buildings or those within conservation areas. In such cases it may be important to prescribe the manner in which the repairs should be carried out. It is important also that some control should be retained over the materials used. Unless we control the materials used, a tenant, in good faith, may carry out a repair in inappropriate materials, thereby rendering the repair worse than useless. There are large parts of the Bill which would be more appropriately spelt out and dealt with in Committee. I hope that the Committee will consider my points. I applaud my colleagues for producing an admirable piece of legislation which greatly extends democratic rights, and one that I support wholeheartedly.
