gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of hon. Members on this the first occasion on which I have addressed the House. I hope that I shall cause no provocation so that the House may extend the courtesy which is usually extended to a maiden speaker. If I may begin on a personal note, my qualification for speaking in the debate rests on the fact that I am one of the few hon. Members who have been through a national college, the National Foundry College, and my foundry qualifications, which include fuel technology, follow a study of natural sciences and metallurgy. My experience which justifies my speaking today arises from the fact that for twelve years I have been closely connected with factory management and commercial management in the steel industry, the steel foundry industry and allied industries in Sheffield. It is my hope that, whatever my contribution this afternoon and, for that matter, on future occasions may lack in oratorical prowess, I may make up for it by drawing from my personal experience in industry and commerce, particularly in the City of Sheffield. My constituency, Hallam, is named after one of the shires within a shire— Hallamshire. It is in the south-west of Yorkshire and embraces most of Sheffield. Its name, like that of Sheffield, occurs in the Domesday Book. The drill hall of the Hallamshire Battalion of the York and Lanes Regiment is in my constituency. The regiment is a well-known one. It celebrated its centenary last year, has served the country well in two world wars, and in the last war saw service in Norway, Iceland and France, among other countries. The Cutlers Company, in Hallamshire is well known to many in the country as well as to the occupants of the Front Benches in this House. Sheffield is a city which has a tradition. It is a city which has a civic pride, and it is proud of its products. The tradition has been carried on from father to son from generation to generation in all walks of life. Just as I am a member of the Cutlers Company in Sheffield, so was my father a master cutler, so was my grandfather a master cutler, and so were two of my great-grandfathers master cutlers. Just as I have lived in Hallam, so did my father, so did my grandfather, so did my great-grandfather, and so did my great-great-grandfather. Just as I have worked in Hallam and in Sheffield in the tool and steel industry, so did my father and my grandfather; and I will not go back any further because my antecedents go back to the early seventeenth century when my family was connected with the cutlery industry. My purpose this afternoon is to support the statements made and the programme outlined by the Minister. It is my conviction, based on experience in Sheffield, that the gas industry has a great future. Why not? The gas industry in, say, the U.S.A. is gaining ground. The sales of natural gas there are going ahead at a faster rate than the sales of liquid fuel. Gas could provide a useful outlet, as the hon. Member for Newton (Mr. Lee) suggested, for the indigenous fuels that lie beneath us, but there are certain facts that we should consider. In 1956, the gas industry used 28 million tons of coal. Last year, the figure dropped to 22 million tons. My comments will be based on this trend. My reasons for intervening in the debate are, however, fivefold. The first reason is that the gas industry of Sheffield is one of the largest industries supplying industrial users. The capacity taken by industries in Sheffield is 20,000 million cubic feet per year, which is an interesting figure in comparison with the storage capacity mentioned by the Minister. My second reason is to ask the House to take note of the changes which are taking place in the steel industry, particularly in the industry in Sheffield. Electric arc furnaces of 80 tons and now 150 tons, some using oxygen injection, will be replacing the older open hearth,   whether gas-fired or oil-fired, furnaces in the steel industry. This means that ancillary plant, coke ovens and producer gas plants will become surplus to the requirements of the steel industry and may have to be demolished. This also means that gas, a by-product of the steel works, will no longer be available to supplement the local gas grids in Sheffield and other areas. My third reason is concerned with the impact of the Clean Air Act in a City like Sheffield and also the need to increase fuel efficiency in an area such as Sheffield. Furnace practice is changing. For instance, coal-fired reheating furnaces, whether they be for forge, rolling mill or press, are now being converted into gas or oil. But, as the Minister mentioned, gas is in competition with oil at present, and the gas industry will have to fight. Sheffield is renowned for its manufacture of high-grade steels required by toolmaking, engineering, aircraft and allied industries. This requires accurate heat treatment to ensure proper physical properties. It also requires accurate atmosphere control and temperature control. It has been my own experience and responsibility to specify, purchase, instal and operate heat treatment furnaces in the steel industry. At that time technical considerations decided that gas would be the most suitable fuel, but, at the same time, economic considerations caused me, in company with other factory managers, to choose oil for factory heating. That decision was taken at the time of Suez. Fourthly, I intervene in the debate because Sheffield University is an active and expanding university. If I may digress, my constituency embraces part of the university and on behalf of many citizens in Sheffield I should like to express my appreciation to the Minister of the excellent services rendered by his father as Chancellor of Sheffield University. He served Sheffield as he served Oxford. As a member of the Council of Sheffield University, I would also assure the Leader of the House that Sheffield will give him as warm a welcome when he takes up his duty as Chancellor of Sheffield University as that which Oxford University will give to the Prime Minister. It is my association with the Department of Fuel Technology  and those advising the industry in Sheffield which leads me to make some of my remarks. My fifth and last reason for intervening is again a personal one. This week, I have to decide how to heat my home. I am mindful of a letter from my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for The Hartlepools (Commander Kerans), in the Financial Times, which pointed out certain factors of interest to me. I am aware that a decision on domestic heating is not based only on logical considerations, but my short list has on it oil-fired central heating and gas-fired central heating as the last two yet to be decided upon. My contribution to the debate will be to illustrate the problems which face the domestic and industrial consumer. Gas is in competition with oil. The oil industry is attracting the consumer by service and a sales campaign and it could be taking markets from gas, as I will show. I welcome the Minister's remarks. If gas is made competitive with oil, that is all to the good, but I would emphasise, as my right hon. Friend has emphasised, that the consumer must have freedom of choice. The problems facing the industrial user are many. Companies in Sheffield who have dispersed factories are paying gas bills which are 15 per cent. higher as a result of a decision connected with non-aggregation of meters. Quarterly assessments have also been a blow. The oil companies, on the other hand, are prepared to aggregate the oil consumed, whether factories are dispersed in one city or throughout the country. This places oil in a stronger competitive position than gas. Local industry has pointed this out to the East Midlands Gas Consultative Council and it has stressed that although industry has improved its efficiency in reheating and heat treatment furnaces, it expects improvements in the gas industry. At this time in Sheffield, 30 firms, because of the Clean Air Act, are considering converting from coal to either gas-fired or oil-fired furnaces. One firm has converted its forge and rolling mills, on economic grounds only, to oil-firing. This could represent £15,000 of sales in one small factory alone. Another factory has 36 furnaces due for conversion. The first trials on oil have been so   encouraging that 19 are now in process of conversion and in all probability the full 36 will be converted to oil. Similar problems face the domestic consumer. He is offered attractive hire-purchase schemes and is subject to good selling by the oil companies. As my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for The Hartlepools has mentioned, unless the consumer has carried out exhaustive inquiries he is unable to distinguish between the advantages of oil and gas. Attempts have been made to evaluate the differentials between oil, gas and solid fuels. One publication, Which'?, states that oil in an atomising boiler can be rated at 1s. 1d. per useful therm, while oil in a vaporising boiler is 1s. 2d. per useful therm, anthracite 1s. 2d. and gas at 1s. 9d. per useful therm, but this could be a misleading comparison because the gas is rated at the London thermal rate, which does not compare with the domestic tariff of the East Midlands Gas Board, which is 12½d. per therm. As for domestic oil-fired heating, one manufacturing firm has provided graphs for the use of its would-be customers. It would seem that the capital cost of an oil-fired domestic unit may be double that of a gas-fired unit. The running cost of an oil-fired domestic unit could be between 15 per cent. and 20 per cent. below that of a gas-fired unit. The overall cost of an oil-fired or gas-fired unit, dependent upon the size of the furnace, could be exactly the same over a period of five to nine years, but after that period oil could prove the cheaper medium for domestic heating. These are figures from one survey, but there are definitely other views being expressed in the country. At the end of the day, however, it is not price but convenience and other factors that would persuade the domestic user. In deciding future policy, the industrial and domestic consumer should be informed of several factors. The known oil reserves in the world could be seriously depleted by the turn of the century, but I am given to understand that the coal reserves of this country could last us for 500 years. Finally, there is the effect of sulphur dioxide, a hazard which, unlike smoke, cannot be seen. It is corrosive and acidic and, in one instance, during the fog in London eight years ago the high death-  rate has been attributed to sulphur dioxide. The sulphur dioxide content in the air in an industrial city like Sheffield is rising and it should be borne in mind that gas, whether produced from coal, oil gasification, whether inported, or produced as a by-product of our refineries, has a sulphur content which is limited by Statute. I welcome the short-term measures outlined by the Minister, whether they be for the development of natural gas, or firedamp in the collieries, whether for the gasification of oil, or whether related to the pioneer project of bringing in methane from overseas. The public would like to see the consumption of gas increased. This would cause the price to come down because of increased volume. It would be a welcome assurance to the public to be told that the manufacture of gas from oil would reduce prices. The long-term measures—the integration of mines, the high-pressure gas grid, underground storage, the location of gas plants near collieries and, finally, the total gasification of coal—are to be welcomed. Many people wonder whether £1½ million a year spent on research and development, particularly in connection with the Lurgi and allied processes, is enough at the present time, because it is by developing these processes that we ensure the future of gas, using coal as a raw material. I agree with the Minister that there is no object in curtailing the use of the gas industry, because it is uneconomic. Therefore, I support my right hon. Friend's proposals because they will help in the long-term to make the gas industry competitive. If the industry becomes competitive now, using oil as well as developing means of using our own coal in the future, a useful outlet will have been found for the nation's coal and will help to keep our mines busy. I therefore support the Second Reading of the Bill.
