gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a very happy tradition that when a Member makes his initial essay from these   benches he receives the indulgence and sympathy of the House and, in return, endeavours to be non-controversial. I feel sure that I shall have both the indulgence and sympathy of the House, and I am confident that I shall not arouse any strong feelings among any hon. Members opposite. I have no intention of entering this debate in an academic sense, purely and simply because I have not the qualifications for doing so, and if I appear in certain aspects to be a trifle carping, may I remind hon. Members, that I have only just arrived in this House and until fairly recently have lived with this problem in my division and have seen the effect at divisional education executive level of the circulars which have been mentioned in this debate. Perhaps it may be politic at this stage to declare why I have such a fervent interest in this question of education. Many years ago, at the age of 11, I had the opportunity of attending a well-known grammar school. Hon. Members will remember that in the 'thirties, while the scholarship boys' fees were paid, there were certain books, clothing and uniform which had to be provided. At that time, my father had been off work for quite a considerable time, and my mother regretfully came to the conclusion that she could not afford to send me. Consequently, I carried on at the elementary school until the age of 14, and then continued my education either before going to work or at night school after coming home from work. I am just wondering whether my arrival in this House is a recommendation for or an objection to further study among children. Somehow, inadvertently, I received this determination that if ever there was anything I could do to ensure that a boy whose abilities entitled him to academic education should never be refused the chance because of family circumstances, I would do it, and the whole of my local government life—and I am now chairman of a divisional education executive—has been bent towards this end. I am glad to say that I have had the pleasure of seeing many boys and girls from ordinary homes making the grade and offering the results of their education to the country. The ideas that I wanted to see realised so many years ago have almost come to pass, although  I feel that I would be less than generous if I did not admit that other people have also been working along the same lines. My hon. Friend the Member for Fulham (Mr. M. Stewart), in his excellent opening speech, mentioned three things that should be done. One of them was the provision of better facilities for the teaching of our children. The divisional executive, of which I am proud to be chairman, has just opened a new secondary modern school. I am one of those who believe completely and utterly in parity of esteem for secondary modern schools. The tragedy is that, side by side with this magnificent new building, we have in the same division schools which should have been—indeed, they were—condemned many years ago. It is, unfortunately, upon these latter buildings that the weight of Circulars 331 and 334 is falling. I was very pleased to hear the Minister say, that, in his opinion, the so-called ""minor project"" was very badly named. I heartily echo his sentiment that what can be a minor project at Ministerial level is a life and death project when it arrives on the floor of the school. If I may, I will draw from my own experience to explain why I say that. In my division, we have many schools —some of them, to be quite fair, are Church schools—in which the condition of the sanitary accommodation is such that none of us would tolerate it for one moment in his own home. Recently, we have had outbreak after outbreak of dysentery, and the medical officer and sanitary inspectors, after inspecting the schools, have issued reports saying, in no uncertain manner, that it is purely and simply the condition of the sanitary accommodation which is responsible for the spread of the disease. The outside sanitary accommodation is often in the school yard; in winter, it freezes up and becomes completely useless. When a school is equipped with cold water basins, and not enough to go round, the result is that the children have, in effect, no facilities at all for washing their hands or for personal hygiene after using the sanitary accommodation. The educational executive committee has made application for money to put matters right, but, because   the letter of Circular 334 is being accepted, no allocation can be made along the lines requested. Not unnaturally, parents are becoming very anxious. The last time I was home, a parent made a very significant remark. She asked me to find out what was the dividing line between economy and criminal negligence. She feels that, if we do not do anything about these things and a child dies, the education committee itself will be responsible. That is the tragedy which the economy measures in these circulars evoke at divisional education level. In Lancashire, there are thousands of schools such as I have described. They are the remnants of the Industrial Revolution, of development which, paradoxically enough, went far too fast. In Rochdale, the town I have the honour to represent, there is a system for doing minor repairs and decorations. I spent last week in the boys' and girls' technical schools, which have not been decorated for over twenty years. Architects have been let loose on one school and the place is now resplendent in pastel shades. It is astonishing to go into the building and see the result, but the headmistress assured me that, psychologically, the effect upon all the children has been tremendous. The unfortunate thing is that two other schools which were scheduled to have the same treatment have had it stopped because there is no money available as a result of Circular 334. The second matter mentioned by my hon. Friend the Member for Fulham is one in which I, too, take a very great personal interest. In speaking about education, we tend to talk about the development of the bright pupil. We speak of universities, grammar schools, secondary modern schools, and even comprehensive schools. Incidentally, I must say that it is not true that a comprehensive school is a school in which the teachers are understood. Running side by side with the general problem of education, but educationally miles away, is the problem of the educationally subnormal child. Nothing at all, or very little is being done for this class of pupil. The Minister rightly says that our primary schools are the nursery of our education system, but, nevertheless, the fact remains that a cancer is today creeping into the primary schools which will,  unless it is checked, ultimately destroy their use and purpose. All hon. Members must recognise that many of our classes in primary schools are overcrowded, and it is very difficult for the teachers to give to their children what they need as a basis for their future education. How much more difficult must it be if there are one or two of these unfortunate, educationally subnormal children in the same class. We place a terrific responsibility on the teacher. It is not enough to say that the subnormal children should not be there with the others. If they are not there, where shall they go? If a teacher gives individual attention to them, the rest of the class suffers. When the examinations come along, parents have no hesitation in telling teachers that they have not done their job. If, as is usually done, unfortunately, the backward child is pushed farther and farther aside in order to develop the bright pupils, he is pushed into a dark abyss from which, in later years, there is no escape. Educationally subnormal children are not eneducable. They are not mentally handicapped. Surely the purpose of education is to bring a fuller and better life to those who can grasp its principles. Those who are slower to grasp them should not be denied the right to do so. Paradoxically, I think, because I have two normal, healthy children, I have taken an interest in the mentally handicapped and educationally subnormal child. I have experienced the joy that such a child feels when he can tell the time or recognise a word. I have sat for hours allowing such children to tell me it is five to four, or ten to five, or that something is ""cat"" and not ""dog"". I have seen the eyes and heard the voice of parents when they realise that, instead of being left with a liability, they have a child who is developing into a person who can enjoy to the full the pleasures of life. After many years of trying, we have in my division succeeded in getting one school between two divisions. The amount of joy and pleasure which is being brought to the children far transcends any money which has been spent upon it. I try to think of the many avenues of adventure which are open to the child who can read. The books of the great   of this world can pour through the windows of his brain. The education of the subnormal child is a humanitarian and worthwhile project. I ask the Minister to consider making a survey of the problem to find out exactly how matters are developing. There are suspicions in my division, and I have no doubt, in many other divisions, too, that the nature of the problem is being concealed as a result of a failure to ascertain the facts. For obvious reasons, medical officers may be inclined to say, ""Why should we go to the trouble of ascertaining a child's I.Q., when there is nothing we can do about it when we have done it?"" Some of us feel that the problem is more widespread than is generally imagined. It would be a great thing if the House were to decide to root out all the facts and, having ascertained the true nature of the problem, to do something about it. Not only should we bring joy and happiness to many people who may otherwise he deprived in later life of the benefits which education could offer them, but we should earn the gratitude of all teachers and parents who, faced with almost insuperable difficulties, try to give these children a future.
