gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech and to refer to my predecessor, George Park, who commanded the respect of the Chamber and of his constituents. I seem fated to dog his footsteps as I was elected to the seat that he vacated on Coventry city council when he was elected to the House. A similar sequence of events determined that I follow him to the House. On each occasion I have been proud to follow him, but the last occasion is the most daunting. His industry and commitment have presented me with the most difficult task of emulating his parliamentary record of excellence. He held office from 1974 until 1987 and performed that 13 years of service with good will, which endeared him to all hon. Members. It is a tribute that all hon. Members have requested me to convey their best wishes to him on his retirement. During those 13 years, tremendous changes have taken place in my constituency and the city of Coventry. Since 1979, 62,000 jobs have been lost. Prestigious car manufacturers have been erased from the industrial scene. The site of the Morris engine factory is now a heap of rubble. Alfred Herbert and Webster Bennett, machine tool manufacturers of world repute, are derelict and boarded up. The car manufacturers such as Triumph, Rover, Climax and Standard—companies that were previously a magnet for Britain's unemployed — are now famous only as collectors' items. That is the sorry state of affairs in my constituency. Unemployment is 28 per cent, in the Foleshill ward. The unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty and deprivation mean greater health risks. As winter approaches, those health risks have been compounded because the inhumane privatised gas board has, without compunction, cut off gas to low-income families. In my constituency the standard of health care is alarmingly low and ordinary people's lives are at risk. Against that background, there are further health cuts and the closure of a further four wards in local hospitals, with the loss of 82 beds. The Coventry local medical committee forecasts that those circumstances could lead to an outbreak of winter illnesses or infectious diseases which doctors and nurses would be unable to cope with. I can add to that the proposed closure of the Coventry Whitley hospital that is located on a prime city site. The hospital was previously scheduled for expansion. It is dear to Coventry citizens and served by the most dedicated staff of doctors and nurses who, with unions across the city and the three Coventry Labour Members of Parliament, are determined that the hospital will not be handed over to a private housing association. They are determined to resist the handover which is solely attributable to under-funding. That under-funding is having a most horrendous effect on the Coventry and west midlands health service. The most serious health problems will not be solved because a Member of Parliament intervenes, for example, to save a child's life which ironically was put at risk by the cuts that the Minister supported. Cuts have led to the cancellation of 33 child heart surgery operations at the Birmingham Children's hospital during September and October. Nothing is sacrosanct and the midlands and Coventry are not unique. In my short time in the House I have heard other hon. Members describe mirror circumstances. The same soul-searching problems occur in constituency after  constituency. There are hospital closures and huge waiting lists for all kinds of medical care. In every constitutency the blame is attributed to under-funding. Doctors and nurses the length and breadth of the country are speaking out and hon. Member after hon. Member, day after day, is pointing to the under-funding. Thousands of people are waiting for renal treatment, hip operations and prostate gland operations. Why are the Government not aware of what is happening? They have listened to Members making these points eloquently, logically and passionately. Obviously eloquence and logic have failed to distract the Government from their uncaring policies. They have an Edgar Allan Poe mentality. They relish the pain that their policies inflict and their policies are physically brutal. I have sat in the House and wondered how to break through that callous barrier. How can we communicate with people who treat the Health Service like a huge supermarket? How can the Government understand the problems of the elderly whose supply of incontinence pads has been halved? How can the Government fail to understand the lives led by elderly people in their homes where they are constrained by low incomes and experience major difficulties coping with problems of incontinency? What was a home with friends becomes a lonely hell when the smell of urine, which is actuely embarrassing, forces the elderly to close their doors to visitors. No economic argument can sustain or validate those circumstances. An understanding of the problem will not be gained in a private hospital. The problem will not go away because an Under-Secretary of State, cavorting in a track suit in a gymnasium before the television cameras, advises the elderly to take up jogging. The problem will go away only when she gets rid of her track suit and puts on an incontinence pad saturated with urine and sits down for a couple of hours in a cold room in conditions conducive to hypothermia. Perhaps then the message will get through to the parts of the body which other messages fail to reach. I venture to suggest that that is an educational method from which all hon. Members could learn. I have been in touch with members of Birmingham city council this morning. Because of their concern at the low standard of care in the midlands, they have gone on record calling for the Government to maintain, increase and improve the Health Service in the midlands. They have also expressed their most serious concern for the children waiting for cardiac treatment at the Birmingham Children's hospital. To reach a solution to that problem, they are inviting the Secretary of State for Social Services, the Under-Secretary of State responsible for hospital services and every hon. Member between Stoke-on-Trent and Stratford to attend a meeting in the Birmingham city council chamber. I anticipate that questions will be asked at that meeting which will be posed from other areas of concern. The questions might include, do Members of Parliament accept that kidney consultants should have been told to send persons home to die? Do they accept that 40 per cent, of cancer treatment beds should be cut? Do they accept that 500 patients should wait two years for prostate gland operations? Finally, I want to refer to a letter from Baron Beaumont, the chairman of the Queen Elizabeth hospital kidney patients association. He poses a question for all midlands Members:   As an MP, you represent the patients in the West Midlands who are suffering from this extreme under-funding of the NHS. Please will you let us know exactly what steps you will take to insist that the Government takes urgent steps to improve the situation? I want to put it on record that if I fail to improve the position by the ritualistic debating process of this House, I am physically prepared to make my presence felt in this House.
