gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to address the House this evening. It must be easier to address the House later in the evening when the Chamber is less populated than normal. However, I cannot help remarking as I look at the empty Conservative Benches that I am reminded of a mass rally of the Scottish Tory party. I thank you for allowing me to speak this evening, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I have some familiarity with the Chamber because I had the honour and privilege to work for some years for my right hon. Friend the Member for Islwyn (Mr. Kinnock), the Leader of the Opposition and the next Prime Minister. Despite that familiarity, like any other new Member, I rise with some trepidation to speak this evening. Like any new Member, I am well aware of  the weight of tradition that surrounds us and I am aware of the centuries of history in which the Chamber is steeped. That knowledge can have an intimidating and daunting effect. Many years ago that was recognised by a former Member from the Celtic fringe who sat on the Labour Benches. He wrote that it was as if the dust of ages lay in the corridors of Westminster, muffling the footsteps of the working men who entered within. The Palace of Westminster""— I am quoting from Nye Bevan, to whom my hon. Friend the Member for Clydesdale (Mr. Hood) referred— is dominated by the most powerful of all religions—ancestor worship. I am sure that many new Members must share that feeling as they enter the Palace of Westminster and notice the frescoes, paintings and sculptures of the great and powerful statesmen of previous centuries. I am fortified by the recognition that those statesmen were not my ancestors. While the great legislators of previous centuries were posing for their portraits or sculptures, my ancestors were digging roads or howking coal. That recognition frees me from the bonds of deference when addressing the House. The political history of my constituency is more recent, but no less powerful for that. Motherwell, North is scarcely five years old. It was formed after boundary changes in 1983 and its comparative youth belies the fact that its constituent parts, particularly Bothwell and North Lanark, have made a consistent and considerable contribution to this House and my party. That contribution was most recently made by my predecessor,Jimmy Hamilton. It is fitting that in my maiden speech I should pay tribute to the faithful service that he gave to this House and my constituency. Jimmy Hamilton succeeded John Timmins as Member for Bothwell in 1964 and for 19 years provided a perfect example of a diligent and devoted constituency Member. His work was recognised within the House by his appointment to the Whips Office and by his appointment to the post of Vice-Chamberlain to Her Majesty's Household. I am sure that Jimmy Hamilton would be the first to recognise that he was but the last in a long series of outstanding representatives who came from Motherwell, North. The first of them was born just outside the village of Holytown of working-class parents a little more than 130 years ago. Born into poverty, delivered into the mine owners' hands at the age of seven, James Keir Hardie rose above the surroundings of deprivation and impoverishment to become the most famous son of my constituency and the founding father of the Labour party. Amidst the economic catastrophe of the 1920s in Motherwell, North, the young Jennie Lee was first returned as Member for Lanarkshire, North at the age of 25. Her successors were no less illustrious. Between 1945 and 1983, Lanarkshire, North was served by two Members of national status and Cabinet rank, the right hon. Margaret Herbison, whom I am pleased to say retains her health, vitality and political commitment in her 82nd year, and latterly my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Monklands, East (Mr. Smith). When I recite those names, I realise that if I ever manage to achieve anything in the House it will be only because I stand on the shoulders of giants. I cannot hope to emulate the achievement of those predecessors, but I shall try to imitate them, knowing that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. In Motherwell, North, we have pride in our past. What we now seek is a Government and a Government policy that will give us faith in our future. At present, I regret to say that that faith is sadly lacking—not because our people lack the skills or the will to work, and not because they lack the energy, the talent or the commitment, but because thousands of them lack the opportunity. They lack the chance of self-advancement. They do not seek sympathy, sentimentality or charity all that they want is a chance. Over the past decade, however, that chance has been denied to them. Like my hon. Friend the Member for Clydesdale I am well aware of the convention that maiden speeches should be non-controversial. It places me in an impossible position. If I avoid controversy in the House by omitting to describe the stark reality of Motherwell, North, I shall only cause controversy and consternation among the constituents who sent me here to represent them. Over the past 10 years, it is they who have suffered. Just as, over the past few hours in this House, we have become used to quite a few maidens, so too, over the past few years, my constituents have become used to ""made-ins"". They are usually of the oriental variety: ""Made in Japan"", ""Made in Korea"" and ""Made in Taiwan"". What we want is a future secure in the knowledge that in a decade's time, we can still look proudly on a host of manufactured products bearing the emblems ""Made in Motherwell"", ""Made in Uddingston"", ""Made in Bellshill"" and ""Made in Scotland"". Unfortunately, that prospect looks less hopeful with evey passing month. From one extreme to the other in my constituency, the signs of economic decay proliferate. At one end, in Tannochside, the vast Caterpillar plant still stands under the sentence of industrial death. We are not dealing with an old, decaying industry with bad industrial relations, with an antiquated work force or with a loss-making factory. We are dealing with a factory and a work force that meets every economic and commercial criterion set down by the Prime Minister for survival in her brave new Britain. We are speaking of a productive, technologically equipped, profitable factory with a flexible and skilled work force and an excellent industrial relations history. Yet it faces the axe. What a waste of the millions of pounds of taxpayers' money which has already been invested, and which must all be thrown away on the whim of an anonymous management that looks upon Scotland as a faraway country about which it knows little and cares even less. I listened with some amazement to the Secretary of State for Scotland when he proudly proclaimed in the debate on the Loyal Address that American investors were falling over themselves to come and produce in Scotland. I ask the same question that my constituents are asking. If United States companies are desperate to produce in Scotland and the Government are desperate for them to do so, why has he been such a dismal failure in saving a single job in the Caterpillar factory at Tannochside? Just a few miles up the road is the Clydesdale tube works at Mossend, whose work force lives under an apparently endless stream of rumour and counter-rumour about lay-offs, sell-offs or proposed mergers. Surely, if the Secretary of State for Scotland could make room in that speech for his contribution boasting of the increased prosperity and profitability of the Scottish steel industry, he could also have taken a little time to end the insecurity  of the Clydesdale work force by pledging some of those increased profits towards investment in the Clydesdale plant. While we are on the subject of steel, which was referred to earlier by my hon. Friend the Member for Clydesdale. let me say that there has been a further crime of omission in the statements and pronouncements of the Government. Just outside the boundaries of Motherwell, North, in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Motherwell, South (Dr. Bray), lies the steel plant that has become for many in Scotland the symbol of industrial Scotland. If the death warrant has been signed, sealed and delivered for the Caterpillar factory, the Ravenscraig steel plant has been the doubtful beneficiary of a stay of execution prised from a reluctant Government. The workers, who include many of my constituents, have fulfilled everything that has ever been asked of them. They have produced high-quality goods, on time, to customer specification and with record productivity—again, the very definition held up by the Prime Minister as an example to British industry. They have never made a pledge that has not been kept, or a claim that has not been backed by hard fact and hard argument. They deserve a better future than one of insecurity and under-investment. Lest there be any thought in any quarter that the Ravenscraig plant can be closed by stealth, investment starvation or salami tactics, let me say as firmly, plainly and simply as I can that the people of Motherwell—the people of Scotland—recognise that a country without a steel industry is like a car without an engine: it is going nowhere. If Ravenscraig is threatened, we will fight as never before and we will be right as never before. I could spend far more time than is available to me outlining the precarious nature of much of the manufacturing base in my constituency. From the more traditional concrete manufacturers at Newmains to the Honeywell factory at Newhouse which stands at the frontiers of technology, all have been blighted by a stagnant economy and a chronic absence of demand—not an absence of need, because there is real need in my constituency. It is a daily reality for those who have to wait hours for public transport, months for a council house and years for repairs. It is there for pensioners who are insecure, families in debt and young unemployed people in despair. It is sometimes said that the Prime Minister does not care about all this. I should make it plain that I do not think that all criticisms of the Prime Minister are fair. I have often heard the cliche that the Prime Minister could be compared in her economic impact with the Luftwaffe. That is a grossly unfair comparison—grossly unfair to the Luftwaffe, which never managed to get beyond London. But this Prime Minister has managed to reach the parts that other bombers could not reach and has destroyed whole tracts of the country. When it is said that the Prime Minister does not care, I find that difficult to believe. I cannot conceive of anyone, even the Prime Minister, being so callously indifferent to the plight of those people. I prefer to think that the Prime Minister just does not understand. She just does not know, because she does not live with the situation day in, day out. So today I take the opportunity of extending an invitation to the right hon. Lady to come and see for herself. Until and unless she comes to my constituency, the suspicion will remain that her ignorance is a wilful ignorance, and the sad and regrettable fact will remain that we are a country   governed by a Prime Minister who is more respected on Capitol Hill than in Bellshill, a Prime Minister who is more welcome in Chicago than in Shotts and more at home in Moscow than Glasgow. As long as that persists, it not only reflects badly on the Prime Minister but undermines the legitimacy of good government in Britain and threatens to erode the very basis of the unity of the United Kingdom. That is bad news for my constituents, bad news for the Government and very bad news for the standing of this House. I shall end by quoting the favourite and famous son of my constituency, Keir Hardie. One hundred years ago, James Keir Hardie wrote that great countries are just like individuals. He said that at certain stages of their life they reach a crossroads and woe betide them if they choose the wrong path. I believe that in Scotland and in Britain we have come to such a crossroads. I believe that the Government are travelling on the wrong road. For the sake of my constituents and my country, the sooner they recognise that they are travelling down the road towards disaster for the United Kingdom, the better it will be for all of us.
