gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am pleased and proud to succeed Stephen Swingler as the Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme. Stephen was very much-loved and respected, a very fine Minister and a very hard worker, and his name will always be associated with the Transport Bill. In Newcastle-under-Lyme he is remembered not only as a Minister, but primarily as a good   constituency Member of Parliament. He always took very great pains indeed over individual cases and was a very great friend of the under-privileged. Like his illustrious predecessor, Josiah Wedgwood, Stephen Swingler always spoke for Newcastle-under-Lyme and for North Staffordshire in general. It is for this reason that I think he would have wanted to speak in this debate this afternoon. He would have wanted to congratulate the Government and to have expressed some feeling of disappointment, because Newcastle-under-Lyme is one of those areas which face the problem of derelict land. It is also an area which is characterised by low pay rather than by unemployment. This low pay has arisen partly from a dependence on the traditional industries of pottery, coal mining and agriculture. We are very pleased in Newcastle-under-Lyme that grants will be given to clear derelict land. Our countryside has been devastated in the past by industrialisation and it really is time that improvements were made to clear up that land. I have found during the last few months that young people in particular are very concerned to live in an attractive environment rather than an ugly one. For them this clearance of derelict land is very important indeed. I agree with the hon. and learned Member for Darwen (Mr. Fletcher-Cooke) that the problem of air pollution is one that the Government should tackle. We are disappointed that North Staffordshire has not been designated an intermediate area. To remove the evil of low pay in North Staffordshire, as in other areas, we need either to have a national minimum wage or to introduce modern technical industries into the area. But employers will not modernise and pay higher wages without being faced with competition, and in areas such as North Staffordshire, where there is a great reliance on traditional industries—industries not responsive to change—it is most important that they have new technical industries. There are other reasons for the need for modern technical industry in the intermediate areas and those areas which we believe ought to be designated as intermediate. Year by year young people are receiving better education.  They are becoming more and more independent. They have better career prospects, and they will not be satisfied with low pay or with jobs in industries which they find unexciting. There is a great need to attract exciting as well as better paid industries. Without the influx of new industry we are likely to see in areas like North Staffordshire the migration of the young and then we shall have to face the problem of an ageing population. Our area should become either an intermediate or a special area. For these reasons I want the Minister of State to reconsider the principles on which intermediate areas have been designated. I hope that the Government will think again and that they will take account not only of the level of unemployment, but also the low pay in particular areas. This would certainly bring great relief to my constituents in Newcastle-under-Lyme.
