gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Representing yet another constituency in the City of Birmingham, I feel obliged to reply in part to the remarks that we have just heard from the hon. Member for Birmingham, Aston (Mr. J. Silverman). Claiming the   indulgence of the House, I think it better to suggest that the electorate of our city will judge as to the merits of housing policy in its boundaries. I ask for a double indulgence today inasmuch as, because of a prior engagement of which your office, Mr. Speaker, was informed, I was unable to be present to hear the opening speeches of the debate. Nevertheless, this is a maiden speech and I hope that it will take the traditional form. I wish to tell the House tonight about my constituency of All Saints, in the City of Birmingham. I think it true to say that All Saints is typical of an inner residential suburb of many a large industrial city. It has a cross-section of population and a combination of trades and industry which is typified wherever one looks in comparable conditions throughout the country. As well as a cross-section of industry, it has a cross-section of population and a very large number of people who have come to this country, particularly from the West Indies, who, I am glad to say, are slowly becoming assimilated into the social economy of the area. I hope that as the years go by they will play a very effective and important part in the economic and social life of our great city. As hon. Members know, in political terms this is a relatively new constituency. The name ""All Saints"" is as yet not well known even in the city itself. It was formed prior to the 1955 General Election, when the Boundary Commission went into the question of our large industrial cities to get some equation of population in an attempt to stem the tide of the expansion taking place round the boundaries. It is composed traditionally, historically and geographically of part of the Ladywood constituency, represented by an hon. Member whom I see sitting opposite, partly of the old West Birmingham constituency, which had many great traditional associations with this House, and a small slice of the constituency of Handsworth. Therefore, it is a somewhat polyglot combination, but nevertheless, a typically representative section of our great city of Birmingham. My colleagues in All Saints tell me that its greatest association is, geographically, with the  Chamberlain family, who played a tremendous part in this House and in the city in formulating the policy and programme of this country and of the city not so many years ago. As a very humble young man speaking here for the first time, I do not think that I can conclude my remarks about my constituency without referring for a moment to my predecessor. I am very conscious of the fact that I have a very tiny majority. I hope that it may be doubled from 20 to 40 next time. Nevertheless, it is not the sort of majority that gives one that tremendous self-confifidence associated with hon. Members representing constituencies in Northern Ireland or South Wales. So I sincerely take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to my predecessor, Mr. Denis Howell, for the part he played in the last Parliament. I hope that hon. Members on both sides of the House will agree that until I managed to ""pip him on the post"" he was an up-and-coming member of the Labour Party. Now that hon. Members opposite have put their house in order, I hope they will see that he is put back there—but not to represent by constituency. I said earlier that in the All Saints constituency there is a cross-section of property. Because of that, we have a cross-section of problems associated with it. We have the problem of the clearance of sub-standard property— today we do not always use the phrase ""slum clearance""—and we have a problem which my right hon. Friend will have to tackle before long, what to do with the large number of houses which would come within the terms of leasehold reform. I wish to enter into the debate on three counts. First, I should like to speak for a moment about redevelopment and slum clearance. Secondly, I should like to say a word or two about the provision of suitable accommodation for old people. Thirdly, I should like to have another go at a point raised so well by my hon. Friend the Member for Coventry, South (Mr. Hocking)—the possibility of private enterprise participating in the development of the inner areas of some of our larger industrial cities. May I refer to the vexed but vitally important problem of slum clearance and redevelopment? The constituency   of my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, Ladywood (Mr. V. Yates) is being redeveloped very quickly. My constituency is well up on the list for redevelopment. I think that the policy of my right hon. Friend and the Government has been perfectly right in this connection. Emphasis must be placed at this point on slum clearance and on giving local authorities the enthusiastic backing which is required to ensure that these properties are torn down as quickly as possible and replaced by buildings of which we can be proud in this age of 1960. May I also draw attention to the fact that, prior to demolition and rebuilding taking place in the City of Birmingham, there is a transitional stage in which, the Government having agreed to the compulsory purchase of property, the Corporation takes over, often for a substantial number of years, the running of the property. In one of my wards probably half the houses are being patched by the local authority because, although they are not yet ready for redevelopment, they need a considerable amount of attention. It is pertinent to mention here that in my five months as Member for the constituency eight out of every ten letters I have received from my constituents have been to do with the problem of clearance and redevelopment. This morning I received correspondence from the Birmingham civic authority. I generally disagree with what the authority says, but in terms of one aspect—the patching of this property prior to redevelopment—I have considerable sympathy with a paragraph which I will read: Not the least part of the Corporation's housing burden lies in the cost of buying and patching unfit houses. The Government's contribution towards patching (£3 per annum for 15 years) is inadequate. It was based on the assumption that the average cost of reconditioning a house would amount to £172, whereas we are finding that it amounts to £300. In political terms, I know that I may be blotting my copy-book by saying this, but I know that that is true in the City of Birmingham. I know that it is a tremendous problem and that if only we can spend the right amount of money and get on with the work quickly, we can put some of this property back into good repair and provide accommodation for the people whom I consider—and this  may be a back-handed compliment—to be second to none anywhere in this country. As a fledgling Member, I should like to take this opportunity of saying a word of thanks, and, indeed, of congratulation, to the Housing Management Department in Birmingham, which suffers so much criticism, is so rarely thanked and the work of which is so rarely appreciated. In this great city the department has a tremendous job to do, and on an occasion such as this we should put on record the thanks of the Birmingham representatives at Westminster for the work which the department is doing. I turn next to the very important question of the provision of dwellings for old people. Under-occupation is one of the big problems. In my constituency there is a tremendous amount of property— and I use the word ""tremendous"" in its truest form—which is undoubtedly under-occupied, simply because the family has grown up, the husband or wife have died, and we have either one man or one woman living on his or her own in a house which, though back-to-back with another house and terraced, is often surprisingly large. If we could ensure a more vigorous attitude towards the provision of accommodation for old people by local authorities, I am sure that this would ease a situation in Birmingham which is desperate. I commend the fact that, as my right hon. Friend told me in reply to a Question a few days ago, the proportion of old people's dwellings being provided is on the increase. This is first class, but there must be more enthusiasm and vigour. We must have more property of this type. We have a very fine record in housing, and I beg my right hon. Friend not to let the country or the party down in this aspect of it. I am informed that in Eastbourne, for the first time, flats have been built to accommodate old people. This is an experiment on the right lines. I wonder whether, in Birmingham, they have learned too late that they should have built upwards ten years ago instead of spreading the houses right out to the extremities of the city. Never mind: perhaps they will learn before it is too late. May I next reiterate a point made by my hon. Friend the Member for Coventry, South? The House should take the opportunity to congratulate the building industry on its magnificent achievement over the past few years. I am reminded of a story told to me during the last election campaign. At a meeting a man said that the Conservative Party had built the houses. A voice from the back asked, ""Did they do it on their own?"" The answer is that no political party can ever do anything. It requires the initiative and enterprise of the people. The party which gives them the opportunity is the party which will succeed. We owe a debt of gratitude to the building industry for the part which it has played in the tremendous expansion of these housing targets over the past few years. Before concluding, I should like to make again the point about the desirability of bringing together the talents of our building industry, of achieving a compromise between the devil and the deep blue sea—the local authority and private development—and of giving them an opportunity to go ahead in a vigorous and enthusiastic manner with the redevelopment of some of our larger industrial cities. This is vitally important. I have brought a book with me tonight which has been published as an example of what can be done. Hon. Members on both sides of the House may well have heard of the Calthorpe estate in the constituency of Edgbaston. Here are 1,600 acres of what, to be honest, is sub-standard housing according to modern terms, and it is being redeveloped by private enterprise. I am sure that it will be a shining example and that in a few years' time people will come from all over the world to see the redevelopment achieved here by private enterprise. I make my few final remarks with especial sincerity. We are reaching the end of maiden speeches by new hon. Members. I think that I speak on behalf of a number of my colleagues when I say how much we have appreciated over the past months—and I mean this sincerely—the help and encouragement which we have received from senior Members on both sides of the House.
