gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Anyone who rises to address this House for the first time does so with a strange mixture of modesty, pride and petrification. This is certainly true in my case. My ordeal is made even greater by the knowledge that I am following in the parliamentary footsteps of a very illustrious predecessor as the Member for Bromley. Mr. Harold Macmillan will always be remembered with great affection both here at Westminster and in his constituency. He was my Member of Parliament, and I would like to add a few words to the many tributes which have already been paid to him. The thing which impresses me most about him is the fact that I cannot remember having heard him utter one word of personal rancour or bitterness against anyone. He is a very remarkable man, and he was a very great parliamentarian. It was a cruel irony of fate that, having successfully survived one of the most unpleasant and unsavoury episodes in modern political history he was struck down by the illness which forced his resignation. I am sure that hon. Members on both sides of the House will join with me in wishing him a long and happy retirement from active politics. If I can make one-fifth of the contribution to public life that he made I shall rest content. I am pleased to have an opportunity of participating in this debate, because for the past 11 years I have been a member of the Bromley Committee for Education. For a number of years I have been its vice-chairman. I have therefore seen the problems that have arisen and the achievements in education in my constituency. In Bromley, we work under the tripartite system. We have grammar, technical high and secondary modern schools. I know that a number of my hon. Friends prefer the bipartite system, but to me this is the great strength of  the Conservative case on education in that we believe in variety and flexibility. We do not seek dogmatically to impose one single system of education on the children of this country. I am not opposed to comprehensive schools in every case, but what I do say is that it is only by allowing the grammar, technical high, secondary modern, public, private and comprehensive schools to exist side by side that we shall have any yardstick by which to judge the success or otherwise of the comprehensive system. Frankly, I am not convinced by the argument sometimes put forward—and we have had hints of it from the benches opposite this morning—that by allowing comprehensive schools to exist together with the grammar schools we thereby permit the best educational talent to be creamed off to the grammar schools. To begin with, that strikes me as being a remarkable admission of weakness in the case put forward by the protagonists of the comprehensive system. I have the impression, too, that there is no shortage of first-class teachers in comprehensive schools. As we know, many graduates feeling idealistically drawn to teaching in this type of school, so in that respect comprehensive schools are competing on equal terms with the grammar schools. With regard to the student intake, I feel bound to mention—and I underline the figures given by the previous speaker, the hon. Member for Manchester, Wythenshawe (Mr. Alfred Morris)—that I would have a far greater respect for the educational theories of hon. Members opposite if there was more evidence of them sending their own offspring to schools for which they express such admiration. The hon. Gentleman said, in fact, that well over one-fifth of the children of hon. Members opposite are sent to independent schools. It seems that with the exception of the right hon. Gentleman the Postmaster-General, who, as we know, is an exceptional right hon. Gentleman, there really is not so far very much sign of hon. Members opposite having a personal as well as a political enthusiasm for comprehensive schools. I maintain that it is up to the comprehensive schools to prove their superiority by their results. To argue that because   of the alleged brain drain to the grammar schools, these schools, so rich in tradition and academic achievement, should be sacrificed, strikes me as educational dictatorship of the most arrant kind. We have been reminded in the debate that the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister has said that grammar schools would be abolished over his dead body. All I can say to that is that if that is so the streets of Bristol and Liverpool are going to be strewn with Prime Ministerial corpses. But I must be careful because I understand that maiden speeches should not be too controversial. This is a great strain on me; it is against all my instincts and inclinations, but I shall do my best. One very slightly controversial thing that I would say, however, is that we on this side of the House find it very difficult to forget the words of that Labour chairman of the Birmingham Committee for Education. A few years ago he said: There is a Socialist objection to the grammar school system because it results in children from working class homes going into white-collar jobs and voting Tory. That to me is a most extraordinary statement and a frightening commentary on the attitude of hon. Members opposite to this vital question of education. I am particularly pleased to see that the Motion before us today calls attention to the importance of flexibility and variety in the organisation of secondary education.… For a number of years I have been the chairman of the governors of a group of secondary modern schools in Bromley. Therefore, I have seen at first hand the excellent work which they are doing. There is an increasing number of boys who are staying on voluntarily after the age of 15, many of whom are now able to take the G.C.E. examination. Earlier this year I met a group of sixth form boys at one of these secondary modern schools. They were late developers. They had sat their G.C.E. at O level and were going out into the world. Some were going into accountancy and some into banking. One was going into Customs and Excise and another into Weights and Measures. Two were transferring to the local grammar school to take their A level there. This is an example of the flexibility that we want to see. Others, again, were going  on to take their A level at further education institutes. Almost without exception, they agreed with me and with my hon. Friend the Member for Newbury (Mr. Astor) that it was only by going to a secondary modern school that they were able to develop and work at a little more leisurely pace and thereby able to make the grade at all. They were convinced, and I entirely agree with them, that had they gone straight to a comprehensive or grammar school they would have felt completely overwhelmed and discouraged from the start. Time and time again, one finds secondary modern school boys, perhaps not of a very high intellectual standard who have a pleasing personality and special aptitude for sport and metal work in a secondary modern school. Such boys are given opportunities; they become prefects and play an active part in the life of the school. I submit that in a comprehensive school boys of that kind feel swamped and are never allowed to develop their character and self-assurance to the full. I think that this emerges very clearly in the Newsom Report because there it is shown that boys at secondary modern schools have a better chance of reaching authority and playing for a school team than they would have if they had gone to a larger comprehensive school. I think that this is a point of fundamental importance in any discussion which we have on the future pattern of education in this country. These, then, are some of the facts which I hope hon. Members opposite will bear in mind before they embark on any drastic or wholesale uprooting of the present educational system. Of course there is room for change and improvement. This is a continuing process, but I believe passionately in the widest possible range and variety of educational opportunity. In our secondary modern schools we have a system which is proving itself by results. In our grammar schools we have a priceless educational heritage. Let us not throw all this overboard for the sake of misguided educational egalitarianism.
