gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I trust that my initial remarks will illustrate that I have already acquired the first art of a parliamentarian, and that is patience. I hope that the hon. Lady the Member for West Bromwich, West (Miss Boothroyd) will not take it as an unnecessary discourtesy if I do not refer to her speech. As is customary in the House, I should like first to mention something about my constituency. I do so with some difficulty. I have listened to or read about 81 maiden speeches, and I find that maiden speeches in this House make the British Travel Association's recommendations seem somewhat limited. We have a rather beautiful country. Proudly representing as I do the urban constituency of Croydon, Central I am somewhat at a loss to compete with the Pentland Hills and one or two other little delicacies. However, recognising that one occasionally owes certain courtesies to the other side, I mention John Ruskin, and I trust the House will understand the pride that I have in Ruskin's recognition of the effect that Croydon had on his career. He said in 1885 how important Croydon was in his formative years, and in talking about Croydon itself he said: Things modest, humble and pure in peace, under the low red roofs of Croydon, and by the cress set rivulets in which the sand danced and minnows darted above the springs of Wandle. I trust that those hon. Members who have been in Croydon recently find some recognition of the borough. The incredible explosion that we have seen in Croydon, the excitement of an urban revolution, is based upon a town with more than 1,000 years of history, and to that extent, though it is called by some a mini-Manhattan, the greater humanity of it than perhaps exists in the other Manhattan might have some resemblance to its history and its historical connections. I shall endeavour to be brief, but there are one or two points that I should men-  tion about Croydon and about the people there. Two points are germane to my constituency. The first is in relation to its age. Despite the right hon. Lady's statement earlier in the debate, pensioners form 17 per cent. of the national population according to the latest census statistics. In Croydon, showing the virility of our young community, they form only 13 per cent. On housing—and I make this point to indicate clearly the recognition that I and many hon. Members on this side have of housing problems—in the nation generally 35 per cent. of the people live in council apartments or houses, whereas in the Croydon, Central constituency that I am proud to represent, the figure is 42 per cent.—in excess of the figure for owner-occupiers. I would crave your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, to mention a point which is not strictly relevant to the debate but is vitally important to my constituency—the Channel Tunnel. Early decision-making is absolutely important, especially in relation to the awful blight which has been caused to many of my constituents. I would pay tribue to the previous Member for my constituency, Sir Richard Thompson, who served the House well for more than 20 years, representing in essence the constituency that I now have the privilege to serve. I would comment on his generosity, his kindness, his constant civility and the tremendous help he gave not only to me but, I am sure, to his constituents throughout his years. I should like to turn, less controversially than some other hon. Members, to the subject of the debate—food. Our national debate on this subject lacks a sense of proportion. The noted economist Paul Bareau quoted figures recently showing that our gross national expenditure last year on food was £9,000 million, while on tobacco and drink it was £6,000 million. Our national debate is pervaded by a terrible sense of immorality. We are so conscious of the proportions in relation to food, but when we discuss this sort of figure in, for example, the Budget Estimates, we find that the wealth area taxes—surtax, capital gains and death duties—account for only 3·9 per cent of   the Estimates for 174–75, whereas the revenue from tobacco and drink alone accounts for 10·3 per cent. A this early juncture in my hopefully lengthy parliamentary career I should like to make a small secondary comment about food. The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and no less a figure than the Chancellor of the Exchequer have created a fallacious assumption in the minds of many hon. Members. In the discussion of parities, the supposition behind their attack on the floating pound was that it had affected our food prices very unpleasantly. This supposition was thrown out, as most such suppositions are, in very large terms. I felt it necessary to do some detailed examination, since we have all come incorrectly to accept the statement that the weighted devaluation of about 17 to 18 per cent. in sterling terms was responsible for a major increase in the price of our food. Cereals are at the base of the food price pyramid. I analysed the importation into the United Kingdom of cereals and cereal preparations throughout 1973 and found that over 70 per cent. came from North America, from the United States and Canada. One does not have to go far into the records to check that the rate of exchange between sterling and the dollar between June 1970 and April 1974 remained completely unchanged. The Canadian dollar has been revalued by about 6 per cent. Putting all these figures together, one sees that on 70 per cent. of our imported cereals there was P devaluation effect of only 2·2 per cent. My main criticism of the tenor of this debate here and outside is that we have adopted an extraordinarily parochial attitude, what I would call a very selfish attitude as an affluent society. We are looking at tactical means of correcting a problem which requires great strategic thought. The events of the last few years have given us the impression that food price changes as well as raw commodity price changes are a very sudden, special and unusual thing. My supposition is that this is concealing a major change, which worries me greatly, about the whole modern world. It is that we are looking at a world in which 1 billion rich give more cereals to their livestock than the other 2 billion poor eat, a world in which  two-thirds of the population eat one-quarter of the world's protein. We are looking at a world in which we have created enormous demand for the conversion of cereals by the affluent to meat products not for nutritional requirements but for preferences of taste. It is thinking on these lines which is vital now, especially when we have an additional negative introduced, the negative of oil prices, which in this instance creates not only shortages but price problems for the production of nitrogen fertilisers. Whom does this hurt and where are the main problems? It is estimated by many that India this year will lose about 7 per cent. of her potential grain crop. She cannot afford that. What we are discussing tonight is short-term palliatives which in no way affect the major discussion which we should be having about where we are going down this rather dangerous road. I suggested that my remarks would be uncontroversial. I hope that they will be taken in that spirit. I thank the House for its courtesy in allowing me to conclude them.
