gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to address the House for the first time, and particularly glad that you do so during the course of this important London debate. I am honoured to serve the electors of Paddington within the City of Westminster, and I am grateful to them for giving me the opportunity to do so. In common with my hon. Friend the Member for Enfield, North (Mr. Eggar), I acknowledge the help and advice that I have been given during these early months by hon. Members on both sides, and also by the Officers and staff of the House, who are always willing and available to give advice and help to a new Member. It is a custom of this House that one should avoid controversy in a maiden speech. I shall seek to observe that rule, although hon. Members will bear with me if I transgress even slightly, as I am sure that they will recall that the previous Member for my constituency was not one to mince words. He was a man who resolutely declared his politics and was unashamed in his views. He presented them on every occasion. I recognise his tradition and I shall follow it, if but modestly. Arthur Latham served the constituents of Paddington first as the hon. Member for Paddington, North, from 1969, and then for the newly constituted constituency from the time of the general election of February 1974. He always did his best for his constituents. I respect that and, on behalf of the many people that he assisted, I thank him today in this debate. My constituency owes its existence to the recent work of the Boundary Commission. The only common feature is that it is located within the City of Westminster. Otherwise, within the eight wards  there is a diverse range of problems and little common knowledge by one community of another. Thus it is true to say that the residents of Hyde Park probably have little knowledge of the lives of the residents of Queen's Park. I follow in south Paddington a long Conservative tradition, having succeeded my hon. Friend the Member for Chelsea (Mr. Scott). He served the constituency with great distinction before he lost the seat in the general election of February 1974. In north Paddington, the tradition has always been in favour of the Labour Party, and I understand that I am the first Conservative Member to represent the northern part of the constituency since 1935. London's changing situation over recent years has brought many problems, not least for the residents of the City of Westminster. The population has declined and manufacturing activity has been severely limited. I am glad that my right hon. Friend the Member for Penrith and The Border (Mr. Whitelaw) was able to join me in my constituency on 16 October to inaugurate a small business bureau, because the chance presents itself under the Conservative Government to restore to central London the opportunities for small business, which has been so severely damaged in recent years. London used to be the haven of the small business man, but frequently the entrepreneur has been driven from central London. He has not had the opportunity to start and to provide the job opportunities that are often wanted. But equally, if we are to ensure that the small business starts, there must be homes for the people to live in. In my constituency, housing is a very complex issue. Home ownership in the City of Westminster is as low as 7 per cent. I welcome the opportunities to be presented in the forthcoming housing Bill to create new home ownership for the benefit of the people of central London. I know that many people living in the council sector in my constituency look forward to the opportunity of becoming home owners. Equally, it is necessary to provide facilities for those who wish to rent accommodation in central London. There is a crying need on the part of the young and mobile workers—people   who wish to live in London for a brief period during their working lives—for rented accommodation. I look forward to the proposals that I know my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for the Environment will introduce in the Bill to create a form of shorthold tenure to bring back into use the property that is available in central London to facilitate those who wish to rent. I should also like to refer to the great estates of the Church Commissioners. In three of my eight wards—Hyde Park, Little Venice and Maida Vale—the Church Commissioners own substantial rented accommodation. The other side of the coin to rented property is frequently the desire of tenants of long standing to own their own homes. A difficult balance has to be struck, but it is my duty to represent the interests of my constituents and to negotiate between them and the owners of these great estates. I pay particular tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Wokingham (Mr. van Straubenzee), who assists me so ably in the course of this important negotiation. The Church Commissioners recognise that a reasonable balance must be struck between renting and home ownership, and they have made it possible for the tenants of Sandringham Court—one of the mansion blocks that they own—to negotiate for the ownership of that property. If the tenants wish to own and to advocate their case, the Church Commissioners are willing to listen. I am glad that the point has now been reached at which the tenants can appoint professional advisers to conduct the negotiation on their behalf. That is how it should be. I should like to use part of this debate to talk briefly about the work of the Metropolitan Police. It is no secret that the Metropolitan Police celebrates its 150th anniversary this year. I believe that the people of London during all these past years have been very ably served by one of the most successful paid constabulary police forces in the free world. The Metropolitan Police was established with a number of simple but clear objectives, and it has retained those objectives to the present day. The first responsibility of a police officer in this  country is to uphold the law by the prevention of crimes and offences. The second responsibility is to take people before the courts and to present the evidence before the magistrates and the higher courts. Uniquely, a police officer in this country is not an employee of central Government. Indeed, this is probably the only country in the Western world where a police officer is under no obligation at all to the central Government of the day. The police officer is accountable to the courts, both criminal and civil, for his behaviour and conduct. That is a safeguard for freedom and liberty which I hope that the whole House will recognise and applaud. I should like to mention the progress that the Government have made in improving the strength of the Metropolitan Police. In the first nine months of this year the total number of police recruits was 1,504 compared with 920 in the first nine months of 1978. The strength of the Metropolitan Police on 30 September was 22,463—an increase of 502 since the beginning of the year. That is good news for the people of London who wish to have a strong and successful police force. They want street robbery and burglary offences to be contained and reduced. They will welcome the Government's initiative in supporting and sustaining the police service. I believe that the Metropolitan Police is probably the world's most successful police force. Since its founding in 1829, upwards of 95 members of the force have been killed in the course of duty. Since 1900, out of the 63 police officers murdered in England and Wales, 21 were members of the Metropolitan Police. For the sake of the record, I should mention that three members of the City of London Police were murdered in 1910. In no other part of the world is a major urban police force so successful in containing violence without the use of firearms and within the law. That is a fact that we, representing the people of London, should recognise and acknowledge with pride. Nevertheless, the work of the Metropolitan Police is extremely difficult. It has to police a complex society. Therefore, we have to consider how we may assist the police in the preservation of law and the investigation of crimes in London. I believe that if the police are to be successful they must be provided with the proper tools to do the job. I know that the Royal Commission on criminal procedure will be reporting in a year or so, but I suggest that the Prevention of Crime Act 1953 would be a more effective way of discouraging the carrying of offensive weapons in public places if it were backed by a stop-and-search power, as has been proposed on many occasions. It is interesting that the police in London, as elsewhere, have the power to stop and search without arresting where the illegal possession of drugs or wild birds' eggs is reasonably suspected. It is a comfort to the bird population of London to know that they are so ably protected, but we have to speak for the people of London who seek equal protection. If the police service is to be effective in enforcing the law, we must consider other practical ways of aiding it. Recently we have heard of the difficulties of dealing with illegal and dangerous parking on our streets. We have been told that staff of foreign embassies and high commissions are loth to obey the law. I should like to suggest a way of dealing with that difficulty. I believe that the police vehicle removal squad should be increased in strength and that removal charges, based by law on the actual costs of the service for taking away vehicles parked on double yellow lines, within the approach lines of pedestrian crossings or dangerously parked, should be substantially increased. In any event, the towing away charge for the recovery of a vehicle should be not less than £50, to be paid in cash or cheque backed by a bank card. That is in contrast to the futility of taking so many of these minor summary offences before the magistrates' courts in London. The average cost for a prosecution works out at about £40 a case, whereas the fine is usually between £15 and £25. Therefore, the public in London are losing and the law is not being successfully enforced. I also believe that if we are to contain crime in London it is essential to encourage ways of preventing it. That surely is most socially desirable and the most cost-effective way. At Marble Arch, in my constituency, the owners  of Park West—a mansion block containing 530 flats—have recently installed closed-circuit television, locking devices and 24-hour porterage, with the result that burglaries in that large mansion block have been virtually eliminated. Elsewhere in London, in our mansion blocks and tower blocks, it is possible to stop the offensive crimes that cause so much harm to ordinary people and their families by measures of prevention. It behoves me to make some reference to the prison service. As many hon. Members will know, I served in two of London's major prisons. I was assistant governor at Wandsworth and assistant governor at Brixton prison. I welcome the May report on the prison service. It is a thorough and excellent document and I thank my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary for endorsing it and accepting its provisions so willingly. In London there is a special implication for us. The plain truth is that, if the police service is to be successful in investigating and detecting crime, and bringing before the courts those who commit serious crimes, the system must be able to accommodate those who are sentenced to periods of imprisonment. In London our major prisons are all overcrowded. It is not difficult to see why. About one-third of all crime committed in the United Kingdom is committed in the Metropolitan Police area. Brixton prison, one of the largest remand prisons in Europe, is under constant pressure. As regards the use of vacant land in the docklands, it will be necessary to make some provision for the prison service. Possibly a 20-acre site will be necessary—preferably in the Beckton Road area—if we are to provide the facilities necessary for the prison service in London. It may also be necessary to build a second prison south of the river, and I would hope that a court house would be built beside it. If we were to do that, we would provide for the efficient working of the prison service to cover London's needs probably for the next 50 years. I am sure that my right hon. Friend recognises the cost implications of this, as I do. The fact remains that time is running out and we shall have to consider this issue with great seriousness before too long.
