gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of this honourable House in making my maiden speech. I find my task even more difficult than I thought it would be by having to speak following the brilliant speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Maude). I am proud to represent Oldbury and Halesowen, a constituency in the West Midlands, in the heart of England. I am succeeding a gentleman who represented the constituency for six years and who was greatly concerned with the well-being of his constituents. He set standards in this respect which I will do my utmost to follow. Part of my constituency has been very well developed indeed, but part of it is in dire need of reconstruction. I sincerely hope that the necessary finance will be made available so that a start can soon be made on this work. A new anxiety which my constituents have is the recent opening of the motorway link through a built-up part of the area. This poses serious problems to those living close by, and I hope that the Minister of Transport will consider their case sympathetically. I inquired into the history of my constituency with some interest. I note that it was the birthplace of the poet William Shenstone, who was a contemporary at Oxford of Dr. Johnson, about whom my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lichfield and Tamworth (Major-General Jack d'Avigdor-Goldsmid) spoke the other day. I have searched the poet's voluminous verse for a suitable quotation for this occasion, but, alas, all I could find was a piece of prose, though it is rather apposite: Laws are generally found to be nets of such a texture as the little creep through, the great break through, and the medium-sized are alone entangled in"". I sincerely hope that the new Government will pass no such laws. My constituents have a reputation for forthright speaking, a down-to-earth approach and for working hard. They also have a strong feeling of love for their country. Before dealing with the main topic of the debate, I wish to discuss their and my love of this country. Nobody can be elected an hon. Member without a feeling of humility and pride. The feeling is all the sweeter when one is of riper years and when one has been a prospective Parliamentary candidate for more than seven years. One feels humility in one's inadequacy, but pride in representing one's country. I am not ashamed to call myself a patriot, not a jingoist or flag-waver but one who believes in our nation and in the incomparable contribution which it can still make in world affairs and in the example it can set to other nations in how to live together in peace. I am proud to represent a constituency in the heart of England. We hear so much today of the other nations in the United Kingdom that I sometimes feel that England itself almost goes by default. We are so anxious not to offend the susceptibilities and proper national pride of our neighbours that we sometimes seem to forget our own nation. Even the English flag is now only seen on churches or on Her Majesty's ships. But  if the flag of St. Andrew or the Welsh dragon can fly beside the Union flag, why not the cross of St. George, too? I notice that the Prime Minister, in his speech on the Address last week, spoke of the fundamental inner strength of the nation"".—OFFICIAL REPORT, 2nd July, 1970; Vol. 803, c. 95.] I echo those words. But cannot we emphasise this point a little more? May I appeal to all those in the vast and powerful communications industry and to teachers throughout the land not to be afraid to talk with more conviction and more forthrightness about our heritage and about those many things which bind us together. Perhaps patriotism, as a subject of conversation, is now taboo as the subject of sex used to be. But, if so, what a pity. We have inherited in this country a civilisation and a standard of conduct which can still stand us in good stead amid all the bewildering changes in modern thought and fashion. The young in particular still need something to hold on to. I am often appalled, as I am sure all hon. Members are, when meeting supposedly well-educated young men and women who have no knowledge of our recent history and no conception, for instance, of our great deliverance in the last war. To some of them, the Battle of Britain is as remote and as meaningless as the Battle of Agincourt. This cannot be right, and we do not find this sort of thing in the strong nationalistically-minded nations across the Channel. We live in an age of experts, of impersonal forces and of technology. Critics of Parliament tell us that we should all be technocrats or professional managers. But surely we must be men of flesh and blood first of all, with real feelings. I hope that those of us who have already, in this new Parliament, been termed by the Press ""men of the Right""—men, I suppose, who are traditionalists—will not be denied our own views on modern society and will express our own moral indignation at some of the things which are going wrong. There is today an emphasis on administration and good government. But, important as these things are, there must be leadership and human compassion, too. Leadership is not a very fashionable word   today. The Leader of the Opposition made a comment earlier in this Parliament on the number of those on this side of the House who went to State schools. I hope it will not be considered controversial if I say that those who decided, often at great personal sacrifice, to send their children to public schools did so for a good variety of reasons. These schools have strong Christian traditions. The spirit of service is encouraged, and qualities of character and leadership are developed. Speaking as someone who has been in personnel work for 24 years in this country, I believe that there is one characteristic above all which is most noticeable about a public school boy and that is that he is invariably a good mixer. Surely that is wanted in society today. This debate is on education. I sometimes feel that education is becoming almost of such overwhelming importance that we are in danger of getting it out of proportion. We do not and cannot all benefit from the same type of education. I welcome in the Gracious Speech the statement that facilities for management training will be improved. But I hope we shall never overlook the fact that humble experience, perhaps as a barrow boy, may sometimes produce the spirit of an entrepreneur, more than will a university education followed by a course at a business school. I am sure that we shall have to take a hard look at the work of the industrial training boards. The idea behind these boards was widely supported on both sides of the House but the time has now surely come for a reappraisal of their rôle. I wish to conclude by referring to the growth of the technical colleges and of the universities. The technical colleges have devoted staffs and, in many cases, magnificent facilities and buildings. What is now required is to give them a social uplift, to raise their status to that of the great polytechniques in France or the equivalent in Germany and Switzerland. Certainly as regard the universities I feel there may be dangers in the present expansion, and particularly dangers in the growth of the study of the social sciences. The gap here—and I suppose that, as a practising personnel man, I can say that I have been doing social science for 24 years—between theory and practice is often prodigious. Many a personnel manager will say that he would have preferred a straightforward vocationally-trained engineer or chemist or a properly trained arts man in history or the classics with a recognised discipline, to those who come from the vast new rapidly-expanding general social science faculties. I know that in some universities very valuable work is being done in these faculties but we must watch the development with care and, if necessary, with criticism. It is worth remembering the old adage—""An ounce of practice is worth a pound of theory.""
