gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to address the House for the first; time. It would be proper for me to continue a custom whose roots are very shallow in this Parliament and to make some mention of my predecessor. Mr. Charles Curran. I cannot speak of Mr. Curran's behaviour in the House, but in the constituency of Uxbridge, which I represent, he is regarded with great respect because of the immense amount of constituency work which he did in the years between 1959 and 1964. He is a colourful and robust personality. Politically, I was practically diametrically opposed to all his judgments, but I am conscious of the great respect for him within the constituency because of the work which he did. To many hon. Members, the General Election is something which is hidden in the past, but I should like to tell one story which is rather typical of Mr. Curran's undaunted and vigorous attitude. After the count, many people were very tired and went home to bed. Not so Mr. Curran. On the day after the election—in fact, only a few hours after the count—the Evening News carried a headline, ""Why I lost to Mr. Fix-it. By Charles Curran"". It was with some regret that I realised as I eagerly read the article that ""Mr. Fix-it"" was not myself, but the Prime Minister.  Hon. Members on this side of the House, when they think of my constituency, remember the name of the noble Lord, Lord Beswick, who, as Frank Bes-wick, represented Uxbridge for 14 years. I am very sensitive of the extremely high standard of constituency representation in Uxbridge. It is a great source of pride to me that I can dedicate myself to trying to continue to some degree Lord Beswick's and Mr. Curran's standard of representation. I wish to address the House on two aspects of the Bill. My constituency is not part of the amorphous urban sprawl of Greater London, although it is classified as part of Greater London for the purposes of local government administration. It is very much a community, or a series of communities. It is rich with charitable and voluntary organisations which play a very active part in the community and enrich its life by their endeavours. It is not without coincidence that the reverend gentleman who, only a few days after the Budget, criticised on television the fact that charities were to be subject to the Selective Employment Tax is a vicar in my constituency. This indicates the fairly strong feeling which ran through my constituency about the suggestion that charitable and voluntary organisations should be subject to the tax. I express to the Minister the sincere gratitude of my constituents for the fact that charities are to be exempt from paying the tax. Many of us on this side of the House feel that we want to develop the community and State provision in the social services. Yet we recognise that there are unique areas of service in which voluntary organisations are particularly qualified to work. I was one of the hon. Members on this side of the House who signed the Motion calling for a review of the Charities Act, 1960. It was a source of regret to me, when pressing for exemption for worthwhile charities, to know that, at the same time, we were arguing for the exemption of charities which, in our judgment, were less worth while, less community-orientated, less outward-looking and which did a less valuable job in community service. Nevertheless, I take the point made by the Minister of Labour today that this is a long-term project which must be considered when Parliamentary time is available and cannot be   the subject of a debate on the Finance Bill. One anxiety which I have about the Bill—and I feel that it is shared by many hon. Members—concerns the treatment of part-time workers. I wish that a system could be devised by which the tax could be levied pro rata on part-time workers. I know that the administrative costs would be constant and that it would not be possible to take the pro rata measurement to the ludicrous proportion of covering people who worked for only two or three hours a week. Nevertheless, there are many people—widows, pensioners, and mothers with young children—who cannot work full time, but who do a valuable job in industries which are starved of labour, particularly in the Greater London area, and whose employment will be seriously jeopardised if the tax is levied on the basis suggested, specially in retail distribution. It is a known fact that in the Greater London area there are many shops whose proprietors employ three part-time workers—old-age pensioners, widows, and so on—to do the job of one person. The customers of those shops and the people involved will suffer in the way that the tax is proposed to be levied. I should be grateful if a method could be found of giving help to those people pro rata. I know the arguments, but it is impossible to suggest that such people are suitable for industrial retraining or that they could do other jobs. That is incorrect. They do the only job that they are capable of doing, and, if they find their employment jeopardised, there will be a serious social consequence. That is possibly the only feature of the Bill which causes me very great regret. In my own area, we are absolutely starved of labour. Hon. Members representing London constituencies will know the problems faced in local government services, for example, which are about 30 per cent. short of establishment levels. We are short of labour, and we welcome any device which will bring more labour on to the market and relieve pressures, particularly on the local government function. My area and its neighbours on the outskirts of London are subject to the London Government Act which was opposed by my party in the House and  opposed by the Labour Party in the constituent areas of the borough. Nevertheless, we have to work the Act, with the transfer of functions involved, and that has accentuated the manpower difficulties which will be faced. We are grateful for any measure which will increase the labour supply and help the local authorities to do their job, which is so necessary to the community. If we could find some way, it would be met with gratitude in my constituency. I welcome the Government's policy, and I hope that they will continue to cut our defence commitments overseas and thus ease the labour position, in the sense that it will help alleviate pressures at home. I welcome the Government's efforts, and I hope that they can continue in this direction. They will be met with gratitude throughout the country. Like most hon. Members, I have been met with pleas from specialist groups about the tax. In all the noise and confusion, it is easy to forget that most of the people in the country support the tax and the Government's efforts. I assure the Minister of my support and that of my constituents for the forward-looking nature of the tax, which may help to solve some of our labour problems. I thank the House for its courtesy.
