gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to intervene in this debate with the usual measure of trepidation and craving the customary indulgence of the House, which the House is wont to accord to those who speak here for the first time. I am proud to represent one of the two constituencies, the one called after the River Test, into which Southampton is divided. Southampton, which was raised to ""the title and dignity of a City"" by Her Majesty the Queen on 11th February this year, has had a long and honourable history, too long to recount to the House; but I may perhaps be permitted to refer, as a background to what I shall say later, to one or two of the highlights of the history of Southampton. The city has always had close contacts with the Continent of Europe, from the days of Claudius, when the Romans built a settlement and port connecting up with their communications network on the Continent. Under the Normans, these continental connections and associations were strengthened and extended. In Tudor times, Southampton's contacts with the outside world spread even further afield. I need not stress Southampton's share in the subsequent development and opening up of what is now the Commonwealth and the new world across the Atlantic; and, for fear of giving offence  to hon. Members who represent the great sea port of Plymouth, I will not dwell on the contention that it was from Southampton that the Pilgrim Fathers set sail, merely putting in at Plymouth to replenish their supplies. More recently, Southampton made a vital contribution to the national effort in both World Wars, though payment was exacted for this in the shape of considerable damage caused by heavy Nazi bombing It is against this background of my constituents' contact with and lively interest in the world outside that I am emboldened to make this debate on the United Nations the occasion for my maiden speech in the House. But first, Mr. Speaker, I must record the great pride which Southampton takes in the fact that my friend, the hon. Member for Southampton, Itchen (Dr. Horace King), has been elected as your Deputy. My only regret is that this evidence of the House's collective wisdom has deprived me personally of a regular pair, which would, indeed, have been very convenient, having regard to the many and varied civic occasions which take place in Southampton. I stand here, Mr. Speaker, as the successor to Mr. John Howard, who is known to many hon. Members on both sides of the House. But I can assure you that it was hardly a source of encouragement to me when I came to know that the strains and stresses of representing Southampton, Test for nearly 10 years had so impaired Mr. Howard's health that he felt unable to contest the last election. I am sure that hon. Members on both sides of the House will wish him a speedy and complete recovery. I have indicated that the growth and prosperity of Southampton has been built up over the centuries as a result of its contacts and connections with developments overseas, and it is, therefore, natural and appropriate that its citizens should be deeply interested in the wider world beyond our shores. This is reflected in the existence in Southampton of an active and virile branch of the United Nations Association, of which branch I have the honour to be a vice-president. But there are other reasons, too, why I think that it might be appropriate for me to make my maiden speech in this   debate. The first is that I noticed, while listening to other maiden speakers from both sides of the House, that the majority of hon. Members present were those who had not yet made their maiden speeches, and I felt that if I deferred my maiden speech too long I should find myself addressing a virtually empty House. Indeed, the attendance today suggests that I have perhaps under-esti mated the number of those who have already made their maiden speeches. The second reason is that I have had the privilege as a civil servant of representing the Government of the day as a member of our mission to the United Nations during two periods since the end of the war. The first period, between 1948 and 1951, was under the previous Labour Government, and the second period between 1957 and 1961, was under the previous Conservative Government. I must confess that I could not detect much difference in the attitude of those two Government to the United Nations and their approaches to its problems. Indeed, the only difference which I can recall is that at the General Assembly in 1949—on 15th November of that year—none of the Labour Ministers or Members of Parliament who made up the United Kingdom delegation to that Assembly found it convenient to address the plenary meeting of the General Assembly held on that day, and it fell to me, as a comparatively junior civil servant, to speak for His Majesty's Government in plenary session on a matter of policy, an occasion, I must say, which I found far less daunting than addressing the House. Under the present Government, of course, no such situation would ever be allowed to arise, for the Government believe that the influence of Britain at the United Nations can be strengthened by representational changes purporting to signify that they attach greater importance to the United Nations than did their predecessor. I venture to doubt the validity of this belief, for it is surely what we say and do at the United Nations rather than who says it and does it which will indicate the measure of importance which this country attaches to United Nations' affairs. I turn to offer some thoughts on the substance of the Motion. The Charter of the United Nations is a written document, and it is nearly 20 years since it came into force. During those 20 years the world has changed out of all recognition, and yet the Charter has never been formally amended as provided for in Chapter 18. This gulf between the provisions of the Charter and the world in which we live has widened ominously. It is true that certain changes in the practices and procedures of the United Nations have occurred during this period to take some account of the growing disparity between theory and reality. But this piecemeal process has totally ignored some fundamental changes in the world situation, and where it has taken account of other changes, it has perhaps created more problems than it has solved. Perhaps I may be permitted to draw attention to a number of fundamental weaknesses in the organisation of the United Nations today and to suggest that, while all these weaknesses call for early remedies, some stem from the fact that the Charter has not been amended at all, while others flow from the fact that it has been informally amended without considering all the implications. The Charter of the United Nations is popularly regarded as being a radical and forward-looking document. Many consider it as more appropriate to a day which has not yet dawned than to the circumstances which prevail in the world around us. But I personally believe that many of its weaknesses derive from the fact that it is not forward-looking enough and that much of its spirit and many of its provisions are too firmly rooted in nineteenth century thinking to make it relevant to the second half of the twentieth century. It is unrealistic not because it foreshadows a reality which has not yet arrived, but because it reflects a reality which has long since passed. Perhaps I may give some examples. It must never be forgotten that the final draft of the Charter was completed before the first atomic bomb was dropped on Japan, and thus those parts of the Charter which deal with the use of armed force to maintain or restore international peace and security—and the key word is ""international""—can have a relevance only in the world which came to an end on 6th August, 1945, when the first   atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, not far from where I was involuntarily residing at the time. Indeed, most of the articles of the Charter dealing with military matters suggest a leisurely deployment of forces during a nineteenth century campaign rather than the realities of the thermonuclear age. The air is full of the pungent smell of horse manure rather than the acrid stench of incineration. Here is one sphere which calls for early examination, though the difficulties are very great indeed. There are other parts of the Charter which are, perhaps, even more out of touch with reality. It is clear that the founding fathers of the United Nations never foresaw the speed with which the new nations of Asia, Africa and the Caribbean would break on the world. They certainly did not contemplate that in 1964, 20 years after the organisation came into being, territories which were not even independent nations at that time would form the majority of the member States of the U.N. Nor can they be blamed for this, for those articles of the Charter which deal with trust and non-self-governing territories contemplated a far more leisurely progress towards independence than has occurred. When the drafters of the Charter included such phrases as Progressive development towards self-government or independence as may be appropriate and when they indicated clearly that economic, social and educational advance should form integral parts of the move forward, they undoubtedly had in mind a long-drawn-out process which would ultimately produce a steadily increasing number of new States possessing the basic characteristics of those States which had attained nationhood in the nineteenth century. Two of those characteristics are of vital importance, and I will return to them. They are, first, the power to preserve law and order internally, and, secondly, at least a reasonable measure of viability economically. I turn now to one of the informal amendments of the Charter to which I have already referred, namely Resolution No. 1514 of 14th December, 1960, which provided, inter alia, that  Immediate steps shall be taken in trust and non-self-government territories or all other territories which have not yet attained independence, to transfer all powers to the peoples of those territories without any conditions or reservations The same resolution included the following passage: Inadequacy of political, economic, social or educational preparedness should never serve as a pretext for delaying independence"". Bearing in mind the circumstances prevailing in 1960, and taking account of the head of steam which had been built up over the rush to independence at that time, there is, perhaps, something to be said in favour of those who sought to bring the United Nations in touch with what was actually happening, for it must be admitted that, rightly or wrongly, the more gradual approach as set out originally in the Charter had long since been abandoned. Those who took that line—perhaps because they chose to do so by a hasty resolution of the General Assembly and not by means of a deliberate and considered amendment of the Charter, which might have revealed some of the consequential dangers—were basing their good intentions on a fallacy. The fallacy is this. Just as the United Nations started as an organisation which was dominated by the West, so, too, the Charter is essentially a Western document. It was drafted and sponsored by those who live in and belonged to a Western environment. Because of this, it embodies the Western concept of the sovereign independent State. This is reflected not only in the name ""United Nations"", but in almost every article of the Charter, particularly in Article 2(7). This Western concept of a sovereign independent nation State, as it developed during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, was regarded as the ultimate in political thinking. But surely it is true that the newly independent States of Asia and Africa do not fit neatly into this matrix. They are fundamentally different from their earlier counterparts in the West. They differ in many respects. I will touch on only three of the fundamental differences. The first is that the earlier Western-type nation States were, for the most part, mono-cultural. ""We who belong"" were quite different from ""those who do not belong"". Greeks emphasised their Greekness, Germans their Germanness. Each had markedly different characteristics which they emphasised to distinguish themselves from others. But the vast majority of the new States are multi-cultural. Indeed, many are multi-racial as well. In Africa, for example, Tanganyikans—and Tanganyika embodies a wide variety of cultures—do not go about emphasising how different they are from Nigerians or Senegalese. On the contrary, they take great pains to emphasise what they have in common as Africans. The second difference is that almost all of the Western-type nation States came into being as the result of the application of organised force. From the war of American Independence down through the wars of Greek, Italian and German liberation—including the wars of liberation in Latin America—military force was the midwife at their birth. But there are no African or Asian George Washingtons, Garibaldis or Bismarcks. They have no great indigenous military father-figures. This absence of a military tradition associated with the coming of nationhood, though it has had undoubted advantages, has, I suggest, also had a profound influence on the internal cohesion of these new nation States. The third difference is the idea of fixed geographic frontiers, which is essentially a Western idea. Those who inhabit the new States have for centuries had a healthy disregard for man-made boundaries. Their concept of a political unit is far less geographical than ours in the West. The various attempts at unions in West Africa, unsuccessful though they have been, the various transformations through which the United Arab Republic has passed, and even the Union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar represent attempts at political groupings which have no counterpart in the Western world, with its insistence on a single focal point of sovereignty covering a particular and well-defined geographical area. As a result of this and other factors, the new sovereign independent States are faced with fundamentally different problems from those facing the older sovereign States, particularly as they have been encouraged to come into being as separate political units at an earlier stage of economic, social and educational development than was originally contemplated by the Charter. The fallacy underlying the intentions of those who accelerated this process was to assume that political independence would automatically give them all the characteristics and cohesion of the older sovereign States. But the distinguishing features which I have enumerated, coupled with the acceleration in the move to nationhood, have given rise to two problems which are not normally found in the older nation States, however large or small those may be, namely, difficulties in preserving internal law and order and lack of resources to get off the economic launching pad. The United Nations, which is largely responsible for creating these problems, must face up to the need for remedying them. I believe, therefore, that in the not too distant future the Charter will have to be amended to take formal cognisance of these and other facts. But, until that can be done, attention should be focused, as is suggested in this Motion, on taking steps to create a United Nations peace-keeping force on a permanent basis. My right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition, when he addressed the General Assembly of the United Nations as Foreign Secretary on 1st October last year, made that point very clearly. Since then, recent events, as my hon. Friend the Member for Wavertree has pointed out, in East Africa, in Cyprus and in the Congo have underlined the need for this as a matter of urgency. I hope that this House will make it clear to the world where we in Britain stand in this respect. The United Nations devotes much of its energies to action designed to ensure that the coloured peoples are not maltreated by white peoples. The United Nations should be prepared to widen the scope of its efforts, and to establish machinery that would provide that no peoples, even if they be white peoples in the Congo, shall suffer at the hands of others. I apologise for speaking at some length, and I trust that my faith in the indulgence of the House to a new Member will not have been misplaced.
