gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is my task to succeed as Member for Parliament for Knutsford a man who was by any standards an undoubted personality. Sir Walter Bromley-Davenport may not at all times have united the House in agreement about the policies which he proposed, but he certainly never passed unnoticed. It is not within my power to emulate him, and I have no intention of trying to do so during my membership of this House. However, I must say that one thing that I should like to be able to copy from him and be remembered for is the same degree of unswerving devotion to this country, to this Parliament, to his party and to his constituents. For that he is undoubtedly well known. Knutsford is the most beautiful part of England. It is in Cheshire, the golden county, whose good sunshine during this election campaign showed at its best. It is the original of Mrs. Gaskell's great book ""Cranford"". It commends itself from every point of view, and particularly as a constituency. I so much hope I shall prove to be a worthy Member of Parliament for it. Pride of place in the Gracious Speech was given to this issue of the Common Market. I realise that in speaking about it today I am committed, in a maiden speech, to deal with it in an as uncontroversial a form as I can. This is made harder for me by virtue of what has just been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Battersea, North (Mr. Jay). I had no idea that this was going to be the tenor of the immediately preceding speech, and therefore the House finds me in very great difficulty to maintain an uncontroversial tone. However, to find it in this prominent place in the Gracious Speech is greatly welcome to a person who, like me, has been unwavering in his belief that Europe must one day be united, and unfaltering in an equivalent belief that Britain must play a substantial part in the unification. This will certainly be, when it comes, one of the greatest decisions which we have to face this century, a decision which can, and will, indeed, shape our lives and the lives of our children for years to come, for centuries to come, perhaps;   and perhaps in their favour and perhaps in their disfavour. The decision itself is of the greatest and most substantial importance. It is not comparable with other great decisions which this House has had to take during this century. Perhaps comparably great ones were those which involved us in two world wars, or that succession of decisions which unravelled the empire of which we were so proud. These previous decisions, however substantial, however important, were ones where the understanding of the issues involved was simple. People as a whole could without difficulty realise precisely what issues were before them and respond to them almost without asserting their voice. This House could quite easily feel the conclusions which the people reached, and in some sense the decisions themselves were inevitable. The Common Market is not so. The Common Market involves a deliberate decision in the light of complex considerations which at this stage are neither apprehended nor understood by the people at large. It is therefore exceedingly difficult, despite a great sense of personal conviction, for me to imagine that this issue can be decided easily without further and deep consideration, and here I share the view of the right hon. Member for Battersea, North. I have no sense of mandate for the Common Market and find it difficult to believe that the country has given a mandate. I feel that there must be further consultation with the electorate but find great difficulty in considering what that further consultation should be. It seems to me that a referendum is wholly inappropriate for these reasons. First, it is no part of our Government system to put to the electorate individual issues for individual decision, and to do so would engender a whole new series of references the end of which it is hard to foresee. Secondly, even if one admitted the possibility, it is appropriate to use a referendum only for issues which can be expressed in a clear-cut way, and this issue cannot. Thirdly, our experience of referenda made by us and by other people has been that the questions put have been indifferently answered, with no answers being given to the precise questions put. So for my part I disagree with the possibility of a  referendum being a useful means of consultation. The alternative might be a General Election but, as a new politician, it seems to me that a General Election is framed to give the electorate an opportunity to express a view on the great totality of issues which face the country and to express its judgment on which party should lead the country. The electorate has recently done this, and done it quite decisively, and the use of a General Election to rehearse an individual issue, however important, is not appropriate for taking the temperature and pulse of our people. My conclusion is that what is necessary is a more intensive and special consultative process between Members of Parliament and their constituents. This problem transcends the normal relationship between Members of Parliament and their constituents; it requires an intensity of discussion which is unparallelled by the issues which have faced Members of Parliament. This method is the more appropriate in that, as the right hon. Member for Battersea, North said, there is a consensus amongst the parties. There may be honoured dissenters therefrom, but the parties themselves consent generally to the purpose involved, and, therefore, a means of reference by individual Members of Parliament is perhaps the most desirable method. It is necessary for Members of Parliament to ventilate the real issues concerned. It is inadequate simply to rehearse the outcome of the negotiations when they take place. The negotiations are concerned with an embryonic Community. Negotiations, however successfully undertaken by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, will deal only with the Community as it exists; the great problem is how it then develops. Once one's hand is set to membership the consequences are immense and fundamental. It is not enough to say that each subsequent decision will be a decision for itself. There is an inexorable progress in the whole continuity and development of the Communities without which the attainment of their agreed objectives will be frustrated. It is unthinkable that we should reluctantly acquiesce in that progress; we must rather wholeheartedly sustain it and, with humility, perhaps lead it. As I see them, the great objectives are these. First, communally to provide for the defence of our continent and its world-wide interests in circumstances in which the cost of defence is so sharply escalating as to outpace any individual nation state's capacity to ensure that defence. Secondly, to engender such a unity within Western Europe as will allow scientific, social, industrial and commercial development on a scale to match comparable efforts in any part of the globe. This in its turn has immense implications not only for those fields of endeavour to which I have referred but equally for education and research. Of what use is it for us as an individual country so far to educate our young that they can handle with their traditional ability the great sciences of the world if we do not have the industrial base upon which they can practise their capacities? The present Communities are manifestly inadequate to afford a foundation for all these attainments. Active membership, if it does not imply precisely a commitment, at least provides a favourable disposition to many other steps without which hopes of attaining the great objectives must remain frustrated and stillborn. Issues which in the lifetime of our country have been decided here, will have to be decided elsewhere, as the right hon. Gentleman said. If we are to realise the future of these objectives, in matters such as company law there must at least be some participation on a European base, as with fiscal policy, and economic policy is, of course, at the foundation of it all. Currency union is involved, with all its implications for the Bank of England and the possible displacement of certain of its functions by a Bank of Europe. These matters raise great hesitations and concerns amongst us. Converging educational curricula and standards are no less a factor of the future, as are the devising of Community energy and transport policies, progressive military integration and weapons development on a scale which existing alliances have never demanded, aid programmes on a continental basis and regional policies displacing our own nationally devised regional arrangements. These are all issues on which we are accustomed to  being entirely our own masters. They are all issues which bear directly on the attainment of the major objectives of membership of the Community. The implications of these changes are very great and equally imply equivalent changes at the level of the institutions of the Communities themselves. The existing form, perhaps inadequate already to deal with the problems of the Six, becomes the more so to deal with the problems of the Ten. It becomes even less satisfactory to deal with the immensely widening sphere of activities which the kinds of matters to which I have referred must entail. We must have modified institutions to match these wider policies if we are to be creative and positive members. If we have set our hand to membership, these are purposes which we must embrace, not defensively and reluctantly, but with ardour and enthusiasm; and we must embrace them with the support of the people.
