gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I very much regret that I should be making my maiden speech on an occasion such as this, arising from the sad and tragic events for the whole of the nation and for the many people whose livelihoods are at stake. I can certainly number many of my constituents among those who are employed by Rolls-Royce. I feel that it is not inappropriate for an hon. Member from Hendon, North to wish to make a contribution to this debate, since Hendon for a very long time has been the home of one of Britain's earliest airports. Nor is it inappropriate that on this occasion I should be appearing in this House having succeeded in my constituency Sir Ian Orr-Ewing who, on matters of defence, made so many devoted contributions to discussions in this place and elsewhere.   Inevitably, I regret that on this subject—which is not one of my choosing but which, in a sense, chose me—inevitably a measure of controversy must creep into what I have to say. I shall hardly be surprised if hon. Members opposite have difficulty in extending to me the normal indulgence. This matter cannot be considered in isolation. The context in which the Bill is to operate will have repercussions which undoubtedly will rumble down through the ages in various ways. I wish to make it clear at the outset that I am not against the proposal that the Government should step into Rolls-Royce as temporary trustees. I fully accept the vital military and civil projects which must be kept in being. However, that does not mean I accept that the House should give the Government what has already been referred to as a blank-cheque. It is a cheque which is undated, which has written on it no sum of money, which has nothing on the counterfoil to say to what the payment relates, and, above all, there is nothing to say on what the money is to be spent. No Conservative Government ought indefinitely to allow thmselves to be involved in the supply, manufacture, or indeed the further development, of items which hitherto have been generally accepted on this side of the House as more appropriate for private industry. Nor should any Conservative Government be granted an open-ended, unconditional opportunity to remain in a risk-taking enterprise requiring the discipline and experience of free enterprise commercial judgment. For these reasons, however long the Government remain in sole control of those parts of Rolls-Royce which it is proposed to acquire, no Government—either this or any future Government—should be allowed to channel any new contracts or projects into this temporary holding company so long as there is no free enterprise element within it.
