gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time I have had the honour to address this House, and I feel sure, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, that you and other hon. Members will give me the same indulgence as has been accorded to other new Members when making their maiden speeches. I have been tempted to take part in this Debate because I have seen the result of the Distribution of Industries Act in an area of my constituency where more than 30,000 people have become employed in the neighbouring trading estate, many thousands of whom have become employed within the last 18 months. It as calculated that £7 million per year is paid out in wages on that trading estate, and a substantial amount of that money is spent in my constituency of Gateshead. That adds to the prosperity of the town. In the days of the depression, one-third of the bread-winners of this town were out of work, and most of the shopkeepers and business people were driven from business because of the lack of spending power of the unemployed population. While we have reason for satisfaction at the moment in making comparison with the pre-war period, we still think that there is room for improvement because there is still a higher percentage of unemployed in that area than there is in other parts of the country. There is also the fear of recession in the shipbuilding and ship repairing industry, and we naturally seek to improve our position against any tendency of further  unemployment. For these reasons, we welcome the Bill. It does provide facilities to extend industrial undertakings in the development areas. Hon. Members opposite may be disposed to dislike certain aspects of the Bill, such as its compulsory powers. They would probably prefer the free play of private enterprise, but no one can deny that private enterprise did fail to provide employment in the distressed areas before the war. It has been the Distribution of Industries Act and the plans of the Government since that have brought much employment to the development areas. While we have a high proportion of people employed in the basic industries, there is always the danger of a slump and unemployment on a large scale. If there is a decline in the heavy industries, we also see an abnormal rise in the rate of unemployment. Therefore, this Bill, in my opinion, is very essential. It is very essential to have facilities for the establishment of alternative industries. I had the experience of finding that a new factory could not be started because of the difficulty of obtaining premises. I also have in mind the position of another employer who had to defer planning a new industry because he could not transfer his key workers through lack of houses. I think that we can welcome this Bill because it makes grants and loans to enable houses to be built in the development areas. I do not know whether it is the intention of the Minister to acquire premises in the shipyards. There are many ship repairers becoming redundant. Certainly, there is a need for alternative employment for such workers. While there is this need for finding alternative employment for redundant ship repairers, it would never do to take them away from the scene of their trade. We do not want to lose sight of them. If there is to be alternative employment for ship repairers, we ought to have that alternative employment on the spot, and we should not make the mistake which was made before the war of allowing our skilled tradesmen to drift out of their employment and become lost because of going to other industries. Perhaps the Minister will tell the House whether the Bill is intended to extend the facilities to provide alternative employment in the shipyard itself. The Government have proved that the drawbacks connected with   the development areas and alternative employment are non-existent. It was argued that markets would be inaccessible, that wages would be high and there would be great industrial discontent if firms were moved to the development areas. We have found that this is not true, and that there is a greater harmony existing in the development areas between employers and employees. There is no sign of any industrial unrest. In my opinion, this Bill will give additional strength to the Distribution of Industries Act, 1945, making provision for factories to be sited in areas with only one or two basic industries, which has given new prospects of employment. In the height of the unemployment period, we found that in London there was only one-third of the unemployment to be found in districts with only one or two basic industries, such as mining and shipbuilding. This leads me to believe that the Government policy of encouraging new industries for the development areas is one of the surest safeguards against stagnation in these areas. I believe that this Bill is another step towards the realisation of full employment.
