gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to the Chair for calling me to speak for the first time in this Committee. I have discovered that it is not easy to decide the right time at which to try to speak. I have listened with interest to much that has been said by hon. and right hon. Members on both sides of the Committee during the debate so far. I ask the hon. Member for Aston (Mr. Wyatt) to forgive me if I do not follow from where he left off, since, as may be understandable, I am only going to make a few observations of a more general nature and shall confine my remarks to as short a space of time as I can. I hope that I shall do so in a way which will not be regarded by anyone in this Committee as being deliberately controversial, and in doing so I ask the Committee to extend to me the same courtesy and generosity as I have already observed hon. and right hon. Members extend to hon. Members who are speaking for the first time in their midst. I have recently had the good fortune to have fought two Parliamentary by-elections in two rather differing constituencies, but I was aware both from the brisk exchanges of the Harrow Road and the somewhat more dignified discussions at Bournemouth that the people generally in both areas were concerned, as I am, about the continued spread of Communism throughout the world. First of all, I should like to say that I am anxious to join with hon. Members who have already spoken in praising the leader and members of our delegation at Geneva for the great tenacity and patience that they showed in trying to find some basis for mutual co-operation and agreement with Communist Powers. They were tireless in their endeavours to try to find any formula on which there could possibly be built the foundations of a peaceful co-existence in Asia, but I have certain doubts in my mind and I feel that this debate, at this time when we are at the cross-roads of our dealings with the Communist Powers, is the right time to try to speak them. Having watched Berlin and the talks now still hanging on at Geneva, I do not believe that the Communist Powers of either Russia or China have shown a very great or genuine change of heart. I do not believe that they are very anxious to alter in any major way at this stage plans which have for so long brought them so many successes. I find it difficult to believe that any coup or attempted coup in any part of the world, sponsored by Communism or by Communist agitation, is in any way an isolated incident. I believe that they all form part and parcel of an over-all and carefully premeditated plan which finds its source of inspiration either in Peking or in Moscow. Unfortunately, we are now only too familiar with the pattern of Communism. No matter at what part of the world we may look, we have seen how Communist agents go about their business, and their business chiefly is that of territorial annexation. We have seen how, in order to establish a Communist government, in many cases political infiltration is sufficient but at other times it may be expedient and necessary to bring in an armed force to act, as they would have us believe, as liberators anxious to free the people of the smaller countries from the yoke of Western colonialism. I am sorry   to think that this particular pattern is becoming now more and more familiar to us. I wonder, as indeed I am sure that other hon. Members must wonder also, for how much longer this process can go on. How many more countries are thus scheduled for ""partnership"" in the Communist world? How many more countries are now being softened up and indoctrinated in preparation for the next stage of implementation of Communist plans? Where does it all end? Where does it all lead to? These are questions which we should consider very seriously. I am naturally concerned about the future and what it may bring. I believe that it is my right to ask these questions but that also, as a Member of the Committee, it is my duty to try to answer them. I find it all too easy to believe, so anxious am I, as we all are, that this should be so, that the Communist Powers have finally seen the error of their ways; but I think that wishful thinking on these lines is a dangerous and indeed a suicidal policy for those who indulge in it. Surely we have learned our lesson well enough from recent history. Surely we have learned it from our own history. We need go back not too far to find a reasonably parallel case when Disraeli warned us against … cajoling France with an airy compliment and menacing Russia with a perfumed cane. I think that we should do well to consider former examples which are still recent history. Certainly, minor concessions have been made by the Communist Powers, concessions which in varying degree are naturally important—important in that they indicate a certain inclination to change their views and their outlook and to come to terms with the Western world. But we should do well to remember in this connection a little story so graphically told to us by Lewis Carroll of how, in spite of all the sobs and the tears, the innocent oysters were still eaten up—every one. I think that we are now, not only in this country but in the world, facing probably the greatest challenge that we have ever had to meet. There is, after all, a ruthless régime deliberately trying to establish its authority over the  peoples of the world. One by one the innocent countries are being eaten up by the Soviet walrus and the Chinese carpenter. We must stop the feast before there is nothing left. Countries which were once free and which had the same privileges of freedom and valued the same traditions as we do in this country, and which we take for granted, are now enslaved and imprisoned behind the Iron Curtain. It is not easy to imagine life behind the Iron Curtain under Communist power. It is all too easy to ignore the plight of the people and to forget their existence. I believe that the Geneva Conference has played an extremely valuable part in that it has to a very great extent brought round and enlightened public opinion both in the West and especially in Asia. I remember when I was serving in the Armed Forces during the war and I was stationed on the Russian and Chinese frontiers of India that I was well aware then of the forceful activity of Russia in the Sinkiang and Kazakistan regions. Since then we have witnessed the tragic episode of Communist invasion of Tibet. I cannot help wondering how much closer the Communists are going to come in their encirclement of India, how much longer India is going to wait, and just who is going to be the next victim on the list. I believe that it is becoming increasingly impossible for any single country to stand alone, thereby hoping that it can escape the turbulent convulsions of the world outside. I do myself subscribe to the views which have already been expressed that we should aim, at an early date, to bind in ever closer alliance all those nations which are still free from Communist influence and control. I hope sincerely that the informal talks which are due to begin in Washington will lead us a step nearer towards a realisation of some global defensive organisation, for this is a global struggle. The attack is on a global front and we must surely be prepared to defend ourselves on a global front. There are, of course, many obstacles in the way before this can be achieved, but I am convinced that only when faced with a powerful, determined and united opposition will Communist dictators really seriously reconsider the desirability   of pressing on with their plans. It is absolutely essential to build up military strength, but at the same time I believe that we must not and cannot afford to neglect the improvement of the material conditions of the many different races and peoples that look to us for guidance and assistance. We have a glorious opportunity in our own Empire and Commonwealth. By directing with a greater sense of urgency our energies and enterprises to developing the many and powerful resources still dormant in those territories we will be showing that we are prepared and anxious to raise the standard of living of the peoples who live there. It the measures which I have only sketched over and hinted at are to be in any way effective against Communism in the long run, I believe that the Governments who are required to carry them out must be supported not only by people militarily strong and materially wealthy but by people who are spiritually determined. I believe that at this juncture we should do well to review our own standing as regards Communism in the world. I would go so far as to say that we should have a complete change of outlook among the people of our country and that they must show by their own pride in the institutions and traditions of our country that they are not prepared, again in the words of Disraeli, to … saunter over the destinies of the nation and lounge away the glories of the Empire. We must be a spiritually determined people. As my hon. Friend the Member for East Aberdeenshire (Sir R. Boothby) said earlier in the debate, this is no ordinary struggle between one military Power and another. It is a part of a carefully planned and insidious attack against the fundamental rights of man and the fundamental teachings of Christianity. I believe that it is in that way that we should do well to consider the questions that confront us today, because only when there is a powerful military organisation, backed up by contented and spiritually determined people, will we have the surest means of halting Communism and of preserving peace. I am certain that we must halt Communism. We cannot any longer allow further acts of aggression to take place unchallenged. I believe that the  questions that I have posed raise a very real challenge. It is our duty to meet it.
