gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Speaker, you and I both owe our position in this House to the same regrettable event. Sir Harry Hylton-Foster, our predecessor, was a man of charm, integrity and distinction, and we miss him. Although he was Speaker for the whole time that he was the Member for the Cities of London and Westminster, I have been astonished as I go round the constituency to find how many constituents he was able to meet, and help, and how warmly they remember him. Now his mantle is divided, and you, Sir, wear one part and I the other. But the division is not absolutely complete, because you, Mr. Speaker, are my constituent. I hope that I shall wear my part of the mantle with the same humanity with which I have already seen that you wear yours. Our constituency, about which it is customary that I should say a few words on the first occasion I speak here, is the heart and brain of this country. It stretches from the Tower of London in the east to the Round Pond in Kensington Gardens—symbols, perhaps rather inadequate symbols in the present age, of power and pleasure which are two of the characteristics of our constituency. It is bounded on the north by that river of commerce, Oxford Street, and on the south side by the Thames—dirty and far too tidal and about which I hope to have the opportunity to say something on another occasion, but whose inexhaustible stream has carried the wealth and energies and ideas of our constituency—and a lot of rubbish with them—into the oceans and countries of the whole world. Our constituency includes the ""Square Mile"" of the City of London, which is not half as ""square"" as some hon. Members sometimes think and which provides much of the money Parliament spends here. Everything in our constituency is the ""mostest"", including prices, the rates, the housing problem and the traffic jams. I hope that my constituent, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huyton (Mr. Harold Wilson) will help his fellow constituents and me by tackling these ills as he has promised. As for myself, although 21 members of my family have been Members of this House before me, 20 if them were not Conservatives. Therefore, I am a Tory of horizon blue and not of the midnight blue of a bygone age, and it is in that light that I have looked at this Bill. On this first occasion, I must not be controversial, otherwise I would have developed the theme that this is an entirely unnecessary Bill, containing an unpleasant element of retrospection, and that its tax provisions would be better dealt with through the existing system of taxation and its compulsory purchase provisions under the existing planning laws. Moreover, I would have gone on to show that it is actually harmful. Even the estimated cost of administering it is £7 million a year, and that is £7 million of the country's money torn up and tossed into the scale of inflation. In addition, £75 million of capital is needed from the Treasury. Offices will have to be built  and in them will sit intelligent and valuable officials sentenced to the slavery of performing a task which they know to be worthless. Valuers are very rare birds and diverting them to this task means not only postponing but actually abandoning the forthcoming rating revaluation, with all that that implies for local authorities and ratepayers. This expense, delay and stagnation, on which I shall not enlarge, will all hamper the progress of building. The Bill coins a new word—""Crown-hold""—but we do not need a new word. We have met this here before. Crown-hold is simply mortmain revived. However, I must not go into that on this occasion. But I should like to make five points, two general and three particular, which, because I must not be controversial and because this is so controversial a Measure, must, of necessity, be minor points. The first is the effect of the Bill on the smaller and humbler property owner who has to pay this tax at the same rate as the richest in the land. Much of the Bill is designed to nobble the ingenious—but the ingenious have lawyers and accountants and often brains and, indeed, they welcome complicated legislation like this because complicated legislation always means loopholes which they will find and dart through. The people who will suffer are the humble—the smallholders on the fringes of the large towns, the tradesmen with their own premises, the old couple in the Black Country who own their own home and also a piece of land backing on to the canal, and the fairground showmen, of whose trade union I am proud to be a member, who nearly always own their own winter quarters, usually on undeveloped land near the centres of towns. These people, and others like them, cannot possibly cope with legislation as complicated as this, drafted on the assumption that all men are crooks. No one will hear about them. No one ever does. But they are the trace elements of English life which give the final alloy its quality, and we shall miss them. The next point concerns amenity. The Bill will greatly reduce the effects of chance on our surroundings. Planning powers are quite adequate already without this fresh procedure and the value of a small residual element of chance   should not be under estimated. Had there been a Land Commission in the past, Hyde Park, Green Park, Holland Park and Regent's Park would undoubtedly have been built on, lying, as they then did, on the fringes of the town and belonging to rich owners who so unreasonably ""withheld them from development"", as the phrase now is. Where would Cardiff be without the Bute family? Today, we are extremely grateful to these people. We need this element of chance. The public know it, or feel it. People do not go to well planned—and they are well planned—Crawley or Harlow to refresh their spirits. They go to unplanned Broadway—I mean the Nabarro Broadway, not the American one—or to York. Total planning produces a well regulated desert—and there are plenty of examples of this abroad which I cannot mention for fear of giving offence. But we should not like it here. In addition, there are three particular points with which I would deal briefly. The necessary Amendments are simple and I will not detail them here. The first concerns the position of those who have provided mortgages on the full development value of land. I know that bankers are not universally beloved but mortgages are provided by many other people—for example, by solicitors acting for small family trusts and settlements. Such people will be in a fix because the Bill will arbitrarily and suddenly reduce the value of their security. But that can be quite easily dealt with, and I hope that it will be. Secondly, there is the position of those who have already paid Estate Duty on land subsequently developed. With the levy they could easily be put into the position, unwillingly, of paying a tax of well over 100 per cent. I am sure that that is not the intention of the Bill and an Amendment in that case is even simpler. Lastly—and this is a point of principle as well—there is the position of charities. For the first time the Bill proposes that they should be taxed. As the Bill stands, their general funds invested in property will be liable to levy. I admire charities. I admire people who, instead of waiting for Parliament to do it at the public  expense, get on and improve the human lot by their own voluntary exertions. They should not be taxed, but if the Government wish to tax charities, this new principle should be separately debated instead of slipped into a Bill which deals with quite another matter. A simple Amendment to a simple Clause would put this right and I earnestly ask the Government to look at that as well. Therefore, as it stands, quite apart from the more controversial aspects, the Bill will oppress the humble, endanger amenity and damage charities. I cannot believe that those are the Government's intentions and I hope that they will have second thoughts about them.
