gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I must ask for the indulgence of the House on this, the first, occasion upon which I have had the honour to address it. I hope that if I trespass against any of the traditions or niceties of the House I may be forgiven, and that I shall do better on another occasion. I am bound to confess that I feel precisely like the novice on the high dive, and that the only solace I have is that, suitably for the occasion, at least I know that the waters into which I am about to plunge are deep. I know, of course, that on such an occasion I must not say anything which is controversial. I should have thought that on this particular subject it was almost impossible to say anything that was not controversial, but at least I hope it will be understood that I shall try to say nothing which is provocative and to address the problem in the spirit of the Epistle for last Sunday, and not render raillery for raillery. The distinction on the question of the cost of living which is borne in mind by very few people, and certainly by very few constituents of mine, is the distinction between the standard of living and the cost of living. The standard of living concerns only the actual material benefit which the people enjoy as a result of their earnings, and the cost of living which we are discussing today, is a problem only of the value of the £. Since the £ has lost its value as a permanent measure of how we are doing, it has become very difficult for all of us to assess exactly where we are getting. A large number of the constituents who live in my division are employed either in the neighbouring divisions of Coventry and in the motor industry, or in my own division, working on ancillary parts required for the motor industry. I may, perhaps, be forgiven, therefore, for suggesting that we should look for a moment at the standard of living of this country against—not a gold or £ standard—but a motor car standard. Between 1947 and today, the number of passenger vehicles per 100 of the population has more than doubled, and when we are considering the position of this   country upon that basis, as compared with other countries, we stand high in the international league. America has three persons per passenger vehicle. This country has 13 persons per passenger vehicle. In Europe, other than Iron Curtain countries and the United Kingdom, there are 35 persons per passenger vehicle, and it is estimated that in the Republic of China there are probably about 30,000 persons per passenger vehicle. I quite appreciate that this is not an absolute or final test in any way, but it is an indication of the standard of living which we are at present enjoying. Over the whole of our economy there falls now the shadow of the rise in the cost of living. People are beginning to feel the greatest possible anxiety. They ask: what can be done about it? The ordinary housewife, the ordinary wage-earner, the common man, in whose age we now live, have at last seen that it is a vital problem which this country has to face. I do not desire to expatiate on it, but there are really four vital reasons why it must be dealt with. In the first place, all hon. Members realise that it presses hardest upon those who can least afford to bear it—ithe poor, the unorganised and weak, and those who cannot catch up with the rise in prices. Secondly, even those who have the illusion that they are keeping abreast of it are probably not doing so, because they forget that by increasing their dividends, or profits, or wages, they are, in fact, lifting themselves up into a higher tax group, so that the net real earnings left in their pockets are substantially less. In 1947, a person with £500 before tax was deducted could buy certain goods and services. It was his standard of living. Today, before tax is deducted, to buy the same quantity of goods and services he requires nearly £800, but, in the interval, he has raised himself into a much higher level of tax payment, and, therefore, his net real standard of living, in the end, is less than it was in 1947. Further, there are the risks of pricing ourselves out of the international market, the risk that we may ultimately have to devalue the £, and possibly have to have a floating rate for the £. If inflation becomes galloping inflation we may arrive at the disasters which overtook some Continental countries before the  war where the disasters and distress were widespread and serious. I should like to address myself not to what Government policy should be to meet this problem, but to what message the Government, I hope with the support of many hon. Members, can send to the ordinary people on how they, individually, can assist in fighting the battle of inflation. I am sure that there is an anxious desire not only in this House, but throughout the country as a whole, to deal with this question of inflation. Very largely, the demand at the moment from the Press and the public is that prices should be pegged, but merely pegging prices is like trying to remove the rash without curing the disease, and it is necessary, in my view, to see what can be done—by ordinary people especially—to stop inflation, because rises in prices are only a symptom of inflation and not the cause of it. I should like to suggest that, with the concurrence of hon. Members on all sides, a message should be sent out from this House that there are two things which the ordinary people can do, and two ways in which they can help to deal with the root causes of inflation. First, that higher costs, wages, profits and salaries can only be met either by greater efficiency or by higher prices; and, secondly, that we must, by our own personal savings, secure the industrial future of this country. I did not understand the right hon. Member for Huyton (Mr. H. Wilson), who opened the debate, to disagree with either of those propositions, though he qualified his acceptance of them by saying that it was not what the Government have said. All I say is that I hope both sides of the House will join in telling the ordinary people that these are two essential things which must be done by them. Perhaps I should deal for a moment or two with each of them. I have recently visited two factories in my division which are not directly concerned in the motor trade, but in making ancillary parts for it. Each management separately told me that between 1947 and today the actual labour cost of producing their articles had not increased at all, despite the fact that the wages of their employees had risen in line with the high standard of wages of the motor industry in the Coventry area. That is a very remarkable record. It is not that the proportion of the cost of labour had not risen; it was the actual labour cost of producing their goods which had not risen at all. That had been achieved by mechanisation on the most extensive scale, by the employment of machine tools of every kind and of the most extraordinary ingenuity, by expanding the production of these factories steadily over the years, by good co-operation between employees and management, and, of course, by the efforts of the workers themselves. That shows that by increased efficiency and increased production it is possible to produce at the same labour cost and yet pay considerably increased wages. That is the method by which, in the future, I hope it will be possible for the wages of the people to be increased without there being, at the same time, increases in cost to the general public who have to buy the goods, The increases in basic wages over the last few years have been remarkable and the rate of increase of basic wages has been constantly growing. I speak of the basic weekly wage rates and not weekly earnings, which, hon. Members will realise, are larger than the basic weekly rate. Those figures increased in 1954 by £185 million, in 1955 by £265 million and in 1956 by £343 million, and in the first five months of this year they have increased at the rate of £396 million a year. If increased efficiency in production is to absorb increases in wages of that nature, the efforts that must be made will have to be considerable indeed, in all industries and by both sides of industry. Is not the problem, however, either that those increases of that scale must be absorbed by increased efficiency or that those increases must be postponed for a while until efficiency can absorb them, unless costs are to rise? On that aspect, therefore, I hope that all hon. Members will join in telling the public as a whole that wages can rise with increased efficiency, but that if efficiency is not increased costs must inevitably rise if wages themselves rise. The other matter upon which I desire to expand a little is the question of savings. It is, as the right hon. Member for Huyton said, vital that we should continue to lay the foundations of our industrial prosperity for the future. There  is much to do in roads, in railways, in nuclear power stations, in research, in the re-equipment of industry and, if the money can be spared, in helping capital development in the Colonies and the Commonwealth overseas and in all the under-developed countries. That huge programme for our development in the future can come only from the pockets of the individual people. I hope that the Government will make it clear to everybody that thrift is still a humble but vital virtue and that savings are as important now in the battle of inflation as ever they were at the time of the Battle of Britain. After all, as we look back into history, the capital accumulation of the ages has always come from the pockets of those who had the money. In the medieval times, the Church had concentrated in its hands the power of the purse and it has left its memorials behind it. From the sixteenth to the eighteenth centuries, the farms, the barns and the mansions that we see scattered around the country spoke of the agricultural wealth of England. In the nineteenth century, the industrialists took over and I need not remind hon. Members what effect they had upon the appearance of the country. But what is to be said of the accumulations of capital of the ordinary wage earner? Is his only memorial to be the multiple stores and shops which are the spending palaces of the people, or can he not, from his savings, produce something which will secure a better future for all of us hereafter? It is estimated that the country is spending over £500 million a year on gambling. Whenever I stake my money, my bookmaker tells me that I have invested it, but I should have hoped that a good deal of that money could have been diverted into a flutter on the future of the country and that by steady savings by all the people, it might be possible in a small degree to deal with the inflation. It is obvious that the savings cannot come from the pockets of those who pay tax, and those who are below the tax level obviously cannot be expected to any extent to be able to save, but at present the vast weight of the money after tax has been paid is with the wage earners   who have gross incomes of under £800 a year. From the national Blue Book issued by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, it can be seen that after payment of tax on individual incomes, those with incomes before tax of under £800 a year enjoy 72 per cent. of the net income of the country after payment of tax and another 10 per cent. of the net income after tax is enjoyed by those with gross incomes of between £800 and £1,000 a year. It therefore appears that 82 pet cent. of the income available for savings from personal incomes after payment of tax is enjoyed by people who have a taxable income of under £1,000 a year. I hope it will be noted that the National Savings Committee has recently launched a campaign to secure regular weekly savers in industry and commerce. It has the support of the British Employers' Confederation and of the Trades Union Congress. I am sure that one thing that all ordinary people can do to assist in the battle against inflation is to become regular savers, to divert even a small weekly part of their income towards savings, and thus, by multitudinous though small amounts, to increase the total amount of capital available to fight the battle of inflation. In those circumstances, savings might well indeed be a saving for the country.
