gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have the honour to represent the constituency of Newbury, so I think that all right hon. and hon. Members in the Chamber will know that I am privileged to succeed Sir Anthony Hurd, who is now Lord Hurd. I know that he was held in very high esteem in this House and had a great many friends on both sides of it. It will not be easy for me to follow him, because he served his constituency with great distinction for 19 years. He was always listened to with great respect in the House. He was acknowledged to be an outstanding expert on agricultural matters, and I think that he enjoyed the same reputation here as he enjoyed in his constituency for always speaking with clarity and authority, not only on agricultural matters, but on any other subject in which he was interested. I am sure that hon. Members who value his friendship, as I do, will be pleased that we will not lose touch with him completely, because he is still serving his country in another place, in the precincts of this Palace. Newbury is still, in the main, a rural constituency. I think that anyone who has driven through the area will know that it contains some of the finest landscape in the south of England. Those of us who live in the area intend to keep it so. At the moment, we have a number of problems hanging over our heads. We have been threatened with a new city, and with the line, to be decided, of the new M.4 motorway. Now there is the possibility of a 400 kilowatt overhead line going through the area. This last proposal will, in the literal sense, create a very highly-charged atmosphere. The other problems will also create a good deal of feeling. These are con-  troversial, and I hope to have the chance to discuss them later and to see what I can do to ensure that the minimum damage is done to the countryside in that area, which should be preserved for future generations. We also have the distinction of being in the Royal County of Berkshire, which has been a very popular area in recent years. A large new residential community is growing up, especially in the eastern area of the constituency and we have many new housing estates. We have one of the highest population growths of any area in the country. This has been reflected in the school population, which has gone up by no less than 50 per cent. over the last 10 years. This dramatic increase has caused considerable difficulty in keeping pace with the new school building programme and in modernising the old rural schools, but it has had the fortunate result that, due to our having, perhaps, a larger building programme than other areas, a higher proportion of our pupils are in new or substantially rebuilt schools. Therefore, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, the comments that I propose to make about education, especially secondary school education, will relate largely to an area which, perhaps, has better facilities than many other areas. I respect the tradition of the House that one should not be controversial in a maiden speech. However, it is not very easy to do that on a matter of this kind, because we know from what we have heard about Bristol and Liverpool that there are many controversial aspects of this subject, which arouse very passionate feeling among parents. But I hope that the Motion, which has been drawn in wide and undogmatic terms, will receive a measure of support from both sides of the House. My hon. Friend the Member for Bristol, North-East (Mr. Hopkins) has already referred to the report that the Prime Minister has said that the grammar schools would be abolished only over his dead body. The Government do not have a very large majority, so I am sure that they will take very good care to preserve his good health. I do not think that we want to see the early demise either of the Prime Minister, or, speaking for myself, of the grammar schools. Many of the arguments in favour of preserving the grammar schools—the maintained ones, the aided ones and the direct grant ones—are well known and I do not intend to go into them in great detail except to say that I do not think that anybody seriously challenges the fact that they have justified their reputation for academic success and offer an enviably high standard of education. They are one of the main sources of supply of future scientists, engineers, teachers, technologists and university graduates, all of whom will play a vital part in the future of this country. I think that it is an undisputed fact—though it is sometimes overlooked—that the direct grant schools provide a practical operating example of a socially integrated community in which pupils are drawn from all walks of life and entry to which is not barred by parental income. I have always understood that hon. Members opposite would like to see an extension of this principle and I cannot understand why, apparently, some of them seek to destroy the very schools where this principle is evident to a far greater degree than is every likely to be the case in the comprehensive schools. Those who argue in favour of the comprehensive schools are often stimulated, I think, by the question whether the children placed in secondary modern schools can receive an education which allows them fully to develop their abilities and aptitudes. The contrast which is often drawn between grammar schools and secondary modern schools seems to imply that the latter exist only to give a second-rate education for children who are not successful in finding a place in a grammar school. This concept may have been true some years age in the days of the all-age primary schools, but things change and they have changed for the better. In my own authority, the last all-age primary schools disappeared two years ago and throughout the country they will all shortly be abolished as those which are still due to be replaced are already included in a building programme. In the place of those schools there is arising what I might describe as a new generation of secondary modern schools. They are well-equipped, with good laboratories, are well staffed and offer outstanding educational opportunities for  their pupils. In spite of the criticisms which are made against them, in areas where they are operating they are establishing a reputation for a first-rate education and parents send their children to them willingly. I believe that a great many people seriously underrate the quality of the work that is being done in these schools. A secondary modern school which is a typical example in my constituency this year had 50 pupils obtaining passes in the G.C.E. at O level. Some gained two or three passes, a few even five or six. It had a total of 116 O level passes and, in addition, three A level passes. It is interesting to note that this happens not only in this typical school of which I am speaking; it is not unique. In the county as a whole, in 1952, there were only 14 passes. During the recent years, the average has been 1,500 passes. This shows how this new generation of secondary modern schools is developing and offering new opportunities. I quite agree that examination results are not everything. What is more encouraging even than examination results is the spirit of enthusiasm in these schools, which can be seen when one goes into them and sees the way in which pupils seize their opportunities and make use of the facilities that are available to them. This is reflected in the number of children who stay on after compulsory school age. Already in the secondary modern schools in my area, one-third of the children stay on voluntarily. The proportion in the grammar schools is higher, but this is a growing figure and it is evidence that these schools are doing a good job. Indeed, they will get better and better as the recommendations of the Newsom Report are implemented. I want to stress that this new generation of modern schools is doing a first-rate job and I regret that so many people, often through either prejudice or ignorance, try to denigrate them. This is a positive disservice to the children, it causes the parents unnecessary and unwarranted anxiety and it undermines the excellent work which is being done by the headmasters and headmistresses and their staffs in these schools. It is true that not all schools are up to the standard of the one I have used as an illustration. I know that many   are still sub-standard and old-fashioned. Many of these are around London, where new, well equipped comprehensive schools have been erected. The older schools make a poor physical contrast with these newer comprehensive schools. It is, therefore, only natural that people should draw comparisons between the two. In most cases, however, I believe that the comparisons are based on the physical aspects of the buildings and the equipment and apparatus rather than on the merits of the educational system. The heart of the argument about secondary education is the selection procedure, to which previous speakers have referred. The hon. Member for Durham, North-West (Mr. Armstrong) said that selection involves privilege. I prefer to say that selection involves ability. Many people still refer to this selection procedure as the 11-plus examination. This is not an accurate description nowadays of the various systems used by an increasing number of authorities. I quite agree that the results of a single test or examination would not be a satisfactory criterion on which to judge the ability of a child. In a growing number of authorities, however, the selection of children is a gradual process extending over months, sometimes over years, and the examination is only one feature of this process. Full weight is given to a child's school record throughout his primary education and also to the opinions and recommendations of his headmaster. One must face the fact that different children have different levels of ability. Even if a child goes to a comprehensive school, he is still selected for the appropriate stream. Differences in ability cannot be abolished. I agree that no selection procedure is 100 per cent. perfect. In the best systems, mistakes are comparatively rare. In my area, if a mistake emerges it can be put right quite simply by agreement between the headmasters of the two schools concerned. Nor is it disastrous for children on the borderline, because there is no clear-cut dividing line between the standards of secondary modern schools and of grammar schools. There is an overlap. It is quite common for children at the top level of a secondary modern school, at least in my area and, I am sure, in other areas, to exceed the standard of  the lower streams at the grammar school. It can, therefore, be truly claimed that all children have an opportunity of developing their talents to the full. I know that some people say that the fact that so many children do well at secondary modern schools shows that they were wrongly selected in the first place and that they should have been sent to grammar schools. I have talked to quite a lot of headmasters and education authorities about this and they agree that it is probably the reverse of the truth. A child who has been in a community in which he has been able to take a leading, responsible part, and perhaps even to excel, is given a self-confidence which he never would have acquired in the more competitive area of a grammar school or even in a comprehensive school. These children have had the opportunity to develop which otherwise they would have been denied. The terms of the Motion accept that comprehensive schools may be the best solution in certain areas. This is especially so in the scattered rural areas and, perhaps, in areas of entirely new population where a school is built up from scratch. A purpose-built comprehensive school may, indeed, have a useful part to play in the educational pattern, but it certainly has not, as far as I know, been shown on educational grounds that the comprehensive system is superior. Many of us, therefore, who are quite prepared to accept new comprehensive schools in appropriate cases would be wholeheartedly against the imposition of this system universally on all authorities throughout the country. Such a compulsory imposition would probably do more harm to the standard of secondary education than any other single act. Apart from destroying the grammar schools, the direct grant schools and the best of the secondary modern schools, it would destroy the ability of local authorities either to take into account local circumstances and local parental wishes or, what is also important, to experiment with different systems, as is being done all over the country. It is from such experiments that improvements in the system as a whole emerge. The compulsory imposition of comprehensive schools would also abolish any element of parental choice. The hon. Member for Durham, North-West expressed the hope that we would hear no   more about parental choice. I am sure that if we had a universal comprehensive system, we would hear no more about parental choice—there would be none. I agree that parental choice is limited and that owing to the existing selection procedure a parent cannot choose the type of school for his child, but there is scope for two important aspects of choice. One is choice on denominational grounds, which is an important matter, and the other is whether to choose a single-sex or a co-educational school. I do not accept what the hon. Member for Bristol, Central (Mr. Palmer) quoted about all co-educational schools having certain dangers, but the dangers exist and are taken seriously by parents, who should be entitled to have the opportunity, if at all possible, of making their choice. I agree that the choice is too limited. We do not have enough of it at present and I should like to see it extended, but the fact that it is limited is, I think, no excuse for abolishing it altogether. I am very anxious to see further improvements in education, not only in the secondary range but throughout the whole educational range, but I am one of those who believe that it can be achieved without destroying the best and well-proved elements of our existing system, and I would prefer to see future progress based on improving the least good schools rather than on destroying the best. Finally, I should like very much to thank the House for being kind enough to listen to me on this occasion of my maiden speech.
