gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time I have had the honour to address the House and I am in need of the usual indulgence accorded to those making their maiden speech. The two factors that are hindering the reconstruction of the blitzed cities are the shortage of steel—which is necessary for defence and exports—and the cuts in national expenditure, cuts which are necessary to avoid national bankruptcy. Any comparison between the efforts of the last Government and this Government can only be fair if it is remembered that between the years 1945 and 1951 the whole of our economy was underwritten by foreign aid, and that during that period the world situation did not necessitate the defence programme that we have to have now. The citizens of these cities realise that they must have a proper defence programme because without it they might be blitzed again, and that is the last thing they want. They also realise that unless these cuts are made, their wages and pensions will become valueless. But within these limiting factors, I should like to make three points. Firstly, in order that the blitzed cities may be able to retain their labour forces—and I speak for Plymouth, which is somewhat isolated in the West—it is essential that there should be continuity in the flow of materials. I put forward the suggestion that the Parliamentary Secretary might get the Ministry to give guidance as to the possibility of having phased programmes, and, while steel is short, using load-bearing bricks with which a building of between four and five storeys can   be constructed. Load-bearing stone could also be used. In this way we could retain the labour force during the period of the steel shortage. My second point concerns the position of the blitzed cities in relation to new towns. It has been suggested that new towns have not been cut as much as blitzed cities. It is argued that where new towns are half built, it is a waste of public money if the building does not continue. That arguments also applies to building in the blitzed cities where licences have been issued and the building started, and, therefore, it is imperative that material be made available for these so that money is not lost and the Ministry are not forced to break faith with private developers. Thirdly, one sometimes forgets the importance of blitzed cities. The greatest testimony to the blitzed cities is the fact that the enemy in the war was prepared to risk men and materials in an effort to annihilate them. That surely is testimony enough. I speak for blitzed cities in general and for port towns in particular; and it does seem somewhat illogical to repair battleships if one does not reconstruct the place that provided the facilities for those repairs and also many of the men who sail in Her Majesty's ships.
