gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
While I sympathise very considerably with many of the statements made by the hon. Member for Eastbourne (Mr. C. S. Taylor) and the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Flight-Lieut. Teeling), I would have felt more sympathy with them if they had represented some of the constituencies which are, at present, levying education rates of 7s. 6d. in the £. I find it hard indeed to have any sympathy for the constituencies represented by the two hon. Members. I hope the right hon. Lady, the Minister of Education, will set her face like flint against reintroducing the guaranteed 50 per cent. When the economic blitz hit this country in 1931, this was one of the casualties, and, personally, I never regretted it. I hope it will not be reintroduced.  Let us look at the history of the 50 per cent. grant. Before 1870, it was generally agreed that the parents, the ratepayers and the State, should pay one-third each for elementary education. I  believe that was the basis of the Forster Act in 1870. The Forster Act was based on that principle. Mr. Gladstone was compelled, before the Bill went through, to give way on the one-third and instead to raise the State grant to one-half. That is the origin of the fifty-fifty basis. But it was a maximum, and not a guaranteed minimum. I have always been puzzled why Mr. Fisher, in 1918, reversed the process. I cannot understand why he introduced the guaranteed 50 per cent. minimum in 1918, which was exactly the reverse of what had obtained before. He did it in the teeth of all the expert opinion. He did it at the behest of a scratch deputation of London Members of Parliament who were concerned only with the increase in their rates. It did not appear in the Kemp Report, and that report was the basis of Mr. Fisher's Education Act. If we were at any time to reintroduce the 50 per cent. guaranteed minimum, then we could say good-bye to any attempt to equalise the distribution of burdens among local authorities. I beg the Minister to give very sympathetic consideration to the position of the local education authorities, as I am sure she will do. I was very alarmed when. I looked at the figures recently. I think that the two hon. Members who have spoken rather understand the position. Actually, the elementary education rate in this country is 25 per cent. higher than it was in 1938–39. In 1938 and 1939 the education rate was 3s. 11d. That is the minimum. It is now 5s., which is an increase of 1s. 1d., an increase of 25 per cent. This is very serious. Further than that, between 1938 and 1939 four education authorities were levying an education rate of 7s. 6d. in the £. But, last year, there were eight. There were eight this year, and, presumably, there will be eight, or more, next year, levying rates of 7s. 6d. in the £. Another disquieting feature is the increase in the number of authorities who are now levying education rates from 4s. 6d. to 7s. Those, in my opinion, are the serious factors, but still I do not think we have reached a really serious position. This increase has taken place, although we have not yet introduced a single reform under the Act. That is the significant point. We have not built any new schools; we have not modernised existing schools; we have not the smaller classes, and we have not the   equipment. We have not all these things, and yet, before we start, the education rate is already up 25 per cent. I do not know, but I think the right hon. Lady will agree with me, that the educational standard in the schools, now, is actually below what it was in 1938. Staffing is inadequate because of the number of men in the Forces, so the standard is actually lower to-day than it was in 1938, and yet, I repeat, the rate is up 25 per cent. The position is still more serious than that. I think the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Flight.-Lieutenant Teeling) mentioned the fact that, already, the local education authorities have received the extra 5 per cent. to which they are entitled under the new Act. That was to have been spread over four years; they were to receive, first 2 per cent., and then three lots of 1 per cent. But they have received all that already, and, therefore, have no further assistance to expect from the State. Lastly, the necessitous areas come into the picture. No distressed area grant in this country has yet solved the problem of necessitous areas, and the necessitous area grant in this Act, will fail absolutely, as I have shown, owing to the number of authorities who are now levying these high rates. I would suggest to the Minister two things which she might do. I suggest that she should consider very carefully the question of giving authorities in England 100 per cent. grants for the cost of school meals and the cost of the medical services. I believe that would cost £3,000,000. The authorities assure me that, if that were done, they could avoid the necessity of raising the rate during the next two crucial years, before any of the reforms can be operated. The position of the authorities is very serious. They are now considering working out development plans under the Act. These plans will necessitate considerably higher expenditure. There will be much opposition on the ground that the rates are already up 25 per cent. There will be greater opposition if the rates rise in the next two years with nothing to show for it. I hope the Minister will consider the possibility of helping those who, believing in the Act, are determined to introduce these reforms and who will have to meet these difficulties. I ask her to encourage them and help them to ensure that there will be no need to raise the rate in the  next five years. That is fundamental. We must give them every help so that they need not raise the rate in the next two years until we raise the school leaving-age. I suggest, therefore, an immediate 100 per cent. grant for meals and the 100 per cent. grant for medical services. These two things should never have been carried on the education account. School-meals are part of our social security arrangements and should be carried on under social security provisions and the medical services should come under the Ministry of Health and should not be carried on the education account at all. If we could get these two promises from the Minister, it would help those who represent the constituencies to which reference has been made and with which I say I have no sympathy. I am not trying to solve their problem. They are among the aristocrats, and I am not interested in their problem, but I am interested in the other problem. Consideration should be given to the immediate setting up of a committee to investigate the whole question of the relationship between local and central administration. The thing is getting out of hand. We do not know the basis on which these small national services which are borne both locally and nationally are fixed. As far as we are concerned, in the matter of education, it is 30 years since the Kemp Committee inquiry. If the right hon. Lady cares to set up such a committee and, if it reported before the raising of the school leaving age, and gave a formula, then not only could we secure greater assistance from the Exchequer, but, we could secure what is more important, an equitable distribution of grants. In that case, I believe the authorities—those who are enthusiastic—would be prepared to put up a fight in the next two years for the reforms necessary under the Act. I am sorry to have been so importunate in this, my first speech in this House.
