gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, to leave out from ""That"" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof: this House considers that every effort must be made to encourage a larger number of volunteers to join units of the Territorial Army before the National Service men are posted to the Territorial Army; and with a view to getting recruits therefore calls upon the Government to improve its publicity and the conditions of service and amenities in the Territorial Army and to ensure that up-to-date equipment is allotted to each unit with proper arrangements for storage and maintenance. In moving this Amendment, I should like to express to the House my appreciation of this, the first, opportunity which I have had of addressing the House, and of having been chosen, by the luck of the Ballot, to speak on a subject about which I feel very deeply and which also gives me the chance of paying tribute to the great work of our Auxiliary Forces. What are the rôles of the Territorial Army? They are three: first, to provide anti-aircraft and coast defences here and by way of reinforcements overseas; second, together with the active Army anywhere, to provide a field force; and, third, to support our Civil Defence organisations against air attack. On the Territorial Army is based our whole mobilisation scheme. How are we to attain these objectives? I suggest by a properly balanced mixture of volunteer and National Service personnel—and there must be no division between these two, as the Secretary of State for War mentioned in his speech. Their tasks are widespread and complex,   but one element without the other would fail in their joint objective. National Service men, during this summer, will proceed in an even flow into the Territorial Army. Some hon. Members may think that with this steady influx of fresh blood the situation is quite satisfactory, but the National Service man only has to serve 60 days' training in four years, and three-quarters of that time, it is hoped, he will spend in training in three annual camps of 15 days each. Only 15 days more are left to be spread over four years, and it is impossible to keep a unit alive and militarily active by efforts which, however good, are the equivalent of less than one 30-hour working week a year. The continuity of direction and training, the provision of officers, both with and without commissions, must surely fall on the volunteers. Without its pride in achievement, the Territorial unit will be sorry stuff. It was that esprit de corps which made many of the Territorial Army Regiments, at the outbreak of the last war, exceedingly loth to give up, as ordered, the ""T""s we were proud to wear on our shoulders. Without these efforts, the sacrifice of young men's time and freedom in National Service will be in vain. Our mobilisation scheme may fail, and our commitments, which may horrify the hon. Member for Westhoughton (Mr. Rhys Davies), but which are commitments of honour and common sense, will not be able to be met, either here, in the Empire or in Western Europe. It has been the voluntary spirit of service for the public good which has already produced reasonable working cadres. If the volunteers had not provided the leadership for these cadres, it would have had to have been found from the already depleted Regular Army, whereas, up to now, these cadres, capable of strong expansion in a time of greater emergency, have not been costly. It is defence very much on the cheap. Out of Army Estimates of£341 million gross, the Territorial Army, excluding the Cadet Force, is costing less than£10 million. But there are signals of danger. It was originally planned that there should be 150,000 volunteers, and it is hoped, under these Estimates, to maintain 142,000 this year. What are the figures? On 1st January this year there were no more  than 82,500 volunteers. Compare this figure with 161,000 on 1st January, 1938, before Munich, before the doubling of the Territorial Army; it is now spread over virtually twice as many units as before the war, with all that that means in increased overheads and unnecessary expense of operation when working at less than full capacity. I am certain that the Territorial associations and the volunteers will respond splendidly to the appeal made earlier this afternoon by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War when he gave notice of the various changes that are to be made in the order of battle of the Territorial Army. What is the cause of the lack of volunteers? I think we must all agree that owing to Hitler's war we have virtually lost what amounts to a 10-year age group. The lad who was 18 in 1939 had probably not joined a Territorial unit. But by the time he came to be demobilised he was 25 or 26 years of age, had possibly married and had to face a new, strange civilian world and find a niche in it, with all the problems which an entirely new life entails. The Territorial Army, when reformed, did not draw on his age group; it drew on a much older one, and that age group is still older today. In 1947, there were many first-class N.C.O.'s and men who signed on, not for four years, but for three, and their period of engagement is almost finished Therefore, we have a good, but ageing cadre, and possibly a declining one as well. To give the continuity of direction and training which the long-service Regular provides for the active Army, and which the volunteer must provide for the Territorial Army, the country should surely make its appeal to the best type of wartime officer, N.C.O. and man. It will not do this by offering jaunts to the seaside or lolling in comfort, though, naturally and rightly, the volunteer will require those technical amenities which he must have to do his job properly. There is a feeling in the country that all has not been well with the publicity of the Territorial Army; there is a feeling that those at the War Office have not known how or to whom to make their appeal; there is the feeling that the Territorial Army will accept anyone. Surely, in a cadre such as this, formed to inspire, direct and   train, quality is so much more important than quantity. I am glad to say that in my home city of Liverpool there appears very frequently, in the ""Liverpool Echo,"" the following advertisement, inserted by the local Territorial Association: Lancashire wants men with character and grit. Quality not quantity. Men of Lancashire, the Territorial Army now requires a limited number of N.C.O.'s of good quality and active service experience in each unit. The object has never been to recruit numbers to reach full establishment, but to complete the instructional teams to train the National Service men. Those with the requisite qualifications apply to the nearest drill hall for information. No bedside lamps. The best recruiting agent is the man who believes that he belongs to a good unit. He gets his relations and his friends to join, and they are proud to belong to a unit that has won distinction. My old regiment, in Liverpool, in 1939, when the Territorial Army was doubled, raised its complement from 390 to 1,400 in three weeks, before we were able properly to start our publicity campaign and very nearly entirely through the recruiting done by the existing volunteers. But if the volunteer—and by the word ""volunteer"" one naturally means the potential National Service volunteer as well, because, as the right hon. Gentleman has said, in due course all volunteers will have undergone a period of National Service—is to be a good recruiting agent, he must be sure that he will receive fair treatment. At present, he is worried about several things. First, he knows that certain of his friends and acquaintances who joined up in the late 30's were disabled during the last war, and do not consider that they have received proper pensions. Second, he must be certain that the volunteer will get at least as good treatment as the National Service man. Third, his wife—the Territorial Army owes much to the wives of volunteers—wants to be certain that their joint annual holiday will not be spent at his camp. Fourth, he wants to be certain that, at any rate for his service in camp, he will not be out of pocket. This is not the right time or place to discuss war pensions, but would the Secretary of State for War say if it is true that the National Service man may be paid for the time he spends going from  his home to his Territorial Army centre, for the time he spends there and goes back and shuts the door of his home, whereas the volunteer will be paid only for the time that he is at the actual Territorial Army centre? The system of grading for merit appointments, known as the star system, is a very complex one. I understand it is being reviewed. But I hope the right hon. Gentleman will assure the House that this vital factor of incentive will remain under the control of the commanding officer, whatever the difficulties may be of change of arm or transfer from the National Service to the Territorial Army. Would the right hon. Gentleman also say what penalty will be imposed—and in what courts it will be applied—on what we all hope will be that very small number of National Service men who may not be willing to serve their country according to the law? Will he make certain that that penalty is uniformly just throughout the country yet severe enough to prevent any rift, which he has referred to, arising between National Service men and volunteers? Is it not time that the nationalised industries had some uniform policy over leave and payment while men are in camp? How. otherwise, can the privately owned industries know what is expected of them if the nationalised industries have no coherent policy for the T.A. as a whole? Substantial advances have been made in the Territorial Army since 1939. The command structure has been improved and training emoluments have been increased. Help from the Regular Forces has improved training. Moreover, that training has provided that vital link, which was lacking before the war, in liaison between Regular and Territorial Forces. Four years' T.A. service on the part of the National Service man will bring an infusion of well-trained fresh blood, and the Territorial Army will no longer only reach its full complement when the country is thoroughly frightened. These are great advances, but there are still some basic weaknesses. In 1939, few Territorial units had any knowledge of administration and those officers, N.C.O.'s and men who learned administration by bitter experience during the war are now older and fewer. For technical and semi-technical units that have large amounts of transport and stores it   is surely necessary to decentralise equipment down to sub-units. That equipment should not be locked up in the regimental stores and located at a week-end training centre. There should be adequate accommodation down to sub-units, and a sufficiency of people to look after the equipment. It is equally important to remember, as my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Petersfield (Sir G. Jeffreys) implied in his speech, that the job of an Army is to fight or to train to fight, and time in issuing and handing over equipment is time taken away from training in that equipment. Time is a vital factor in the Territorial Army and it so happens that generally the most efficient officers, on whose knowledge the standard of the unit depends, are those most pressed in civilian affairs. They must be given reasonable help so that, responsible for the broad policy and training, they are able to decentralise details either to Regular permanent staff or to specially rewarded Territorial personnel. Yet, with no such help, one unit on Merseyside has been given a week-end training centre 40 miles away, with all that that means in wasted effort and time and extra cost. In 1939, a battery quartermaster-sergeant in the Territorial Army received special pay. None such is forthcoming now. To bring about this necessary decentralisation is it not possible to provide the necessary storage accommodation and also to provide either more permanent staff, or help or some extra pay—it need not amount to very much—for purely Territorial administrative personnel? By so doing, a commanding officer will ensure that someone who is responsible for those stores and equipment, on a sub-unit rather than at unit level, is always available at all operative times. As the right hon. Gentleman may know, the difficulty is that owing to the exigencies of industry one can never be certain in the Territorial Army whether Territorial personnel can turn up for parades in an evening or not. Therefore, it is immensely important to have someone who will always be present with responsibility for issuing sub-unit stores. It will not cost very much. In any event, the Territorial Army is defence very  much on the cheap. It would be money very well spent. There appears to be too much rigidity in planning, and too much centralisation. For instance, it has been laid down that all gunners should train at their week-end training centre. If the unit on Merseyside had to do that 40 miles away, I am afraid that not much training would be done. Apparently, the same area in square feet is allowed for headquarters, known as T.A. Centre, whether a good training area is near or whether those headquarters are in the middle of a city surrounded by a mass of streets. The announcement today by the right hon. Gentleman that Territorial Army Centres may be moved to where the volunteers are most likely to be is no doubt a step in the right direction. But I hope he will also bear in mind the need for flexibility in accommodation, depending upon the area to which he moves that accommodation. This lack of flexibility is due to lack of liaison and a misunderstanding of how the Territorial Army works. In 1947, when the Territorial Army was reformed in Western Command, we were consulted and were given great help by senior commanders of the Regular Army, but it was too late. The framework, to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, had already been decided on without consulting those who really knew how the Territorial Army worked, both in peace and in war. Such lack of consultation must be overcome, and I suggest to the right hon. Gentleman that the machinery of liaison from the Territorial Associations up to the Director of the Territorial Army could be broadened by quarterly meetings at command and district levels by Regulars and Territorials of all arms. These meetings should discuss policy, and their recommendations should receive immediate attention and action. That is the right way to give us proper value for our money. Incidentally, it is to be hoped that there will be no further change for some time in the great and important office of the Director of the Territorial Army. The Regular soldier is now working with the Territorial in peace-time as he did in war. Together, despite difficulties, disappointments and downright discouragements—some unavoidable and some man-made—they have already achieved great, though unspectacular, things. To   them the country owes a heavy debt. With greater mutual aid, understanding and help from His Majesty's Government they can, with the National Service man, build up an Auxiliary Force which will yet be the envy and the admiration of the world.
