gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with much trepidation that I rise to address the House for the first time and, therefore, I ask rather more than the usual indulgence from the House in the hope that hon. Members will bear with me if I do not put my points as clearly as they put theirs. It is my privilege to represent Bournemouth, East and Christchurch, where hon. Members sometimes go, with many other hard-working citizens, when they want to relax. Bournemouth is principally a holiday resort. Essentially it is a place of recreation and leisure. Not only is it a place for holidays but it is a place for retirement, where many thousands of people spend their last days. I emphasise that it is one of the finest holiday resorts in the country, and yet recently the B.B.C. has been putting on television and the wireless shows advocating holidays abroad. I cannot for the life of me understand why this should be, when people can go to Bournemouth for a holiday at half the expense. Bournemouth is full of amenities, and one of its chief amenities—none more important—is the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra. It is in this connection, as it comes under the heading of the Arts Council, that I should like to make a special appeal and to put forward certain claims on behalf of the national provincial symphony orchestras. Our orchestra was founded in 1893 and has about sixty-five full-time working musicians. At present it is on a tour in Wales, and its duty covers the southwest of England in this respect. It is a renowned orchestra, as many hon. Members know. Even the Financial Secretary made reference to it in answer to a Question from me last November, when he expressed his approbation of a performance which he had attended. Last November, the Bournemouth orchestra appeared before Her Majesty the Queen Mother at a Command Performance at the Royal Festival Hall. As hon. Members know, in years gone by, when there were a number of rich men, relatively speaking untaxed, it was their custom to be patrons of the arts. In those days the general public had no   conception of art or culture. It was left to the wealthy to ensure that art did not die, and it was their interest that kept music, poetry, painting, sculpture, opera, ballet and the other arts alive and, in fact, thriving. It is safe to assume that we might not have had the music of Bach, Haydn, Mozart or Beethoven if those great musicians had not had a patron who supported them with a stipend and provided them with an orchestra. The same thing happened with all the great artists of the day. They were commissioned by the well-to-do. In fact, they had patrons. This kind of thing continued until about forty years ago. The opera and ballet were supported by their patrons, and the great shows of Covent Garden fifty years ago were not a commercial success and could not have survived without the donations of the patrons of art. The point which I wish to make, in particular, is that it is owing to taxation, especially Income Tax and Surtax, that it is no longer possible for any man to have such an income that he can afford to give substantially to the arts. The Government have taken all such money from such people. My point is that the Government, by taxation, have taken the money which the patrons would have given to the arts, and I therefore submit that it is the duty of the Government today to become the patron of the arts. The principle of Government support for the arts was established some years ago and confirmed by the formation of the Arts Council of Great Britain. Postwar experience has demonstrated that the amount of support provided by the Government has not kept pace with the ever-increasing expenditure forced upon those responsible for maintaining the arts. The musicians employed by the provincial symphony orchestras are, in the main, engaged at the minimum rates laid down by the Industrial Disputes Tribunal in 1957. For the three grades of musician these are £13 10s. 0d., £15 10s. and £18 10s. per week. Although these rates are classified as minimum rates, in practice they have become the actual rates paid, as the managements find themselves unable, through lack of funds, to improve these rates. It has been established beyond all doubt that no symphony orchestra carrying out its  true function of supplying and developing the art of music can be regarded as a commercial proposition. In the election manifestos, both the Conservative and Labour Parties stated their willingness to support the arts to a greater extent than hitherto. Representations have been made to me by those vitally interested in our orchestra at Bournemouth that the Conservative Party have never said how they intend to carry out their promise, nor do they seem to have any specific policy for defining for what purpose financial support should be given. I am sure that I speak for all five of the orchestra managements—the Scottish, Liverpool, Hallé, Birmingham and Bournemouth—when I say that I should like to see the Government change their present system of an annual consideration of estimates into some method which would permit us to know the extent of Government support for at least three or five years in advance At the moment the grants-in-aid are deficit grants. This leads to difficulty in properly planning the purely artistic side of the orchestra's work and causes the managements to concentrate on making things pay. The managements must of necessity place an undue emphasis on box office receipts rather than on purely artistic results, and there is therefore a tendency, it seems, for the musicians concerned to be both overworked and under-rehearsed. I believe that the box office provides just about half what it costs to run an orchestra. The other 50 per cent. has to be supplied by municipal authorities, local authorities, the Arts Council, special groups and campaigns. The immediate practical step necessary seems to me to be to consider how to support the orchestras in such a way that the managements are able to pay reasonable salaries to the musicians who make this profession their career. I am sure that we should all find it very difficult, if we were in such a qualified profession as are the musicians, to provide for a family on £13 10s. a week, as the rank-and-file musician has to do. On that salary he has to provide for a family, to see that his musical instrument is kept in good repair and to retain a certain social level. He has to provide himself with three working suits—full morning dress, full evening dress and a dinner jacket. It is important that we should look at this question of their salaries. This cannot be done by the managements. Only through subsidy can their salaries be increased. The total amount of money required to keep the five provincial symphony orchestras ""in the black"" is mere chicken feed. One hundred thousand pounds a year would make it possible for the Scottish, the Liverpool, the Hallé, the Birmingham and the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestras to plan good programmes over a period of years, pay proper salaries to their musicians and develop orchestras worthy indeed of the British nation. I am informed that the battered town of Hamburg, which was laid flat during the war, today subscribes more to the arts than the whole of the British Commonwealth. The Government should take action to ensure that the musical profession is established in such a way that it offers an inducement to young people to make it their career. In post-war years, the tremendous strides taken in the mechanical reproduction of sound, broadcasting and television have resulted, as in the theatre, in a great diminution in the amount of work available to musicians. There is a real danger that the British orchestras could deteriorate because experienced and qualified musicians would need to emigrate in order to make a decent living from their profession. In conclusion, I believe that there is a real golden opportunity for the Government during this period of reasonable prosperity to establish this country in the forefront of artistic endeavour. I thank all hon. Members for listening so patiently to my views. It is my urgent hope that the Minister will consider again how he can help put the national provincial symphony orchestras on a proper business footing.
