gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, am very grateful for this  opportunity to address the House. Although this is a maiden speech, I shall not inflict on the House any potted history of my constituency, going back to Anglo-Saxon times, and nor shall I compete with my hon. Friend the Member for Gloucestershire, West (Mr. Watkinson) in extolling the beauties of my constituency. I am rather more concerned about its political loyalties. Woolwich, East has over its 56 years of life shown a considerable faith in and loyalty to the Labour Party. There are just two blots on its escutcheon. The first occurred in March 1921 when Ramsay MacDonald succeeded in losing the seat in a by-election by 685 votes. That defeat was rapidly avenged at the General Election the following year, and Woolwich, East was then able to enjoy unbroken Labour representation until the summer of this year, when the sudden political metamorphosis of Christopher Mayhew resulted in my constituents experiencing the sudden and for them totally unwanted novelty of being represented by a member of the Liberal Party. I realise that it is usual to refer to one's predecessor in the House. I know Christopher Mayhew well. I was his agent for four years, a period which covered two General Election campaigns. I have always said that I have the highest regard for the courage and determination with which Christopher Mayhew held unpopular views. I have rather less regard for his political judgment. I feel that the manner of his departure was a sad end to 23 years of representing one of the most loyal groups of constituents any Member of Parliament could wish to have. I have promised not to undertake a panoramic tour of my constituency, but I ought to mention two organisations born in Woolwich, East of which Woolwich people are very proud. One is the Woolwich Labour Party, founded in 1903 as a result of the election to this House of Will Crooks in a by-election that year. It was the forerunner of Labour Party constituency organisation throughout the country, and it has always had a large membership. Today, it can claim the largest Labour Party membership in Great Britain. The second organisation to which I must refer is the Royal Arsenal Co-operative Society Limited, born in a small front   room in Woolwich in 1868, with 20 members and a share capital of £4·11s.3d. Today, it is able to claim over 400,000 members, and its share capital stands at over £8 million. Its trade this year will be over £74 million. The Royal Arsenal Co-operative Society is an example of ordinary working people creating and building up an organ of competitive public ownership, and I have been proud to be associated with it over the years. My constituency is in inner London, and it shares all the social problems of the inner London area, notably and inevitably, the problem of housing. All of us in public life can get very little pleasure from the situation which currently exists in housing, particularly in our inner city areas. The problem in many cases has worsened considerably in the last two or three years with waiting lists becoming longer and longer and the problems of homelessness becoming ever greater. Therefore, like many of my hon. Friends, I welcome the pledge in the Gracious Speech to encourage the provision of more homes to rent and to reform the law on rents and housing subsidies. We must realise, however, that that pledge will not be easy to redeem. There are considerable difficulties to overcome. At the forefront we must place the problem of housing costs. I am not sure that everyone in the House fully appreciates the extent to which inflation and rising interest rates have hit local authorities in their housing endeavours. In my constituency it costs the local authority more than £14,000 simply to build a three-bedroomed house or flat. When land costs are added the figure for a typical three-bedroomed house increases by £5.000. So an authority such as mine with 2,500 properties under construction is saddling itself with an increasing and crippling burden of debt. The injustice in the situation is that those areas with the biggest housing problems get deeper and deeper into this sort of financial difficulty. It is well known that local government is now facing considerable financial difficulties. One of the reasons for that is undoubtedly the soaring cost of housing. I know from my contacts with leaders of local authorities in all the urban centres and great cities that they are likely to be faced within the next 12 months with  making the bitter choice between increasing rents or further adding to the burden on the ratepayers. Therefore, if we are to achieve the promise to provide more homes to rent in the areas where they are most needed we shall need to give much more dramatic help to those hard-pressed inner city areas than we have been giving in recent years. The second problem is one of land. In areas such as inner London, building land is running very short and in some areas the supply has dried up. Conflicts are developing between hard-pressed inner London boroughs and those of outer London which have the opportunities for building and often are not taking them. That sort of conflict will continue to develop unless in a city such as London we begin to treat the housing problem as one problem for one city, not a problem divided up between 32 independent boroughs. Therefore while I welcome the pledge to take development land into community ownership I hope the legislation will include some reserve strategic powers to help the inner city areas where the land is so desperately needed to solve the housing problems. The third difficulty is the problem of the building industry. I have experienced the frustration of being unable to get tenders for desperately needed housing because the building industry is too busy putting up luxury hotels and office blocks. I welcome the pledge in the Gracious Speech that our administration will tackle the problems of the lump, a system which has done so much to reduce training and recruitment in the industry, and also the pledge to create a stable work force. But we must recognise that to create a stable work force we must create a stable demand for the building industry. It is sad that whereas this time last year local authorities were unable to get tenders because of the pressures on the building industry, the threat of redundancy now exists for many workers in the industry. That is no way to get a stable work force. I have referred to the difficulties facing local government, and perhaps I should declare my interest as a former leader and still a member of a London borough council which until recently included among its members my hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr.   Garrett). The problems local government now faces are not just the obvious financial problems of inflation in labour-intensive services such as the social services. It is not just a problem of building costs or rising interest charges. It is to some extent a rapidly increased public expectation which has been nourished by Ministers in successive Governments. At times one could hardly open a newspaper without reading of Ministers urging on local government the need to do more and more for the elderly, the mentally ill, the mentally and physically handicapped, the homeless, children in care, for consumers and so on. The list is almost endless. What is sometimes not recognised is that one cannot turn the tap on and off in local government spending quite as easily as that. The decisions local authorities took last year will have their impact on the rates next year as the old people's home is actually built and comes into use, or as the children's home or the other social services provision become available. The expenditure begins from that point. One of the reasons local authorities will be faced in the next few months with extremely difficult decisions about either reducing the level of their services or incurring unprecedented rate increases is the feeling that efforts are now being made to turn that tap off and hold down spending. It is difficult for local government to think in terms of long-term planning when the rolling 10-year programmes of social service provision which we were asked to put up are cut to shreds when it comes to loan sanction. My local authority put up a detailed programme for social service provision linked to our housing schemes so that alongside the housing, we provided facilities for the elderly, the young and the handicapped. It is sad to find that programme cut to ribbons when it comes to loan sanction. I recognise that government is about priorities. I recognise, too, that my right hon. Friends will have some unenviable decisions to take in the difficult days ahead. All I ask is that they ensure that when the sacrifices are shared out, the burdens do not fall on the homeless, the badly housed, the handicapped, the elderly and all those who depend so  heavily on the services provided by local authorities.
