gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank the Chair for calling me to make my maiden speech this afternoon, even if it is slightly later than I thought was the original intention. I begin by paying tribute to my predecessor in Cathcart, Mr. Edward Taylor. It is not easy to pay tribute to political opponents, but it is fair to say that Mr. Taylor was a hard-working and conscientious constituency Member. I know from my own experience in the campaign that one factor which lost me some votes was Mr. Taylor's work as a constituency Member. I know that his absence from Parliament will be much regretted. I am   sure that he would have taken his place on the Government Front Bench as Secretary of State for Scotland. I cannot say that that is a matter of any great regret to me, but I am sure that it is regretted by his Conservative colleagues. I wish Mr. Taylor the very best in whatever profession he now chooses to undertake. Not only do I follow Mr. Taylor as the Member of Parliament representing Cathcart, but—a matter which will be of particular interest to Labour Members—I follow in this House an illustrious relation, the late Jimmy Maxton. That is a name that is, perhaps, well known to many hon. Members but, as a man, he was not known personally except to a few who came to the House in 1945. In following both Mr. Taylor and my uncle to this House, I intend to emulate Mr. Taylor as a conscientious, hard-working constituency man, but it is my uncle's philosophy that I shall pursue rather than that of Mr. Taylor. I turn now to the subject of housing, particularly as it affects my constituency at Cathcart. I begin by asking a specific question of the Government. The Secretary of State for the Environment implied that the legislation that he intended to introduce on housing covered the whole of Britain. That is not the case. The legislation will cover only England and Wales. I assume that the Secretary of State for Scotland will, during this debate, say whether similar legislation is to be introduced to cover Scotland. The Cathcart constituency is divided neatly into two halves, one of which consists entirely of owner-occupied houses and the other a very large housing scheme called Castlemilk, which is one of the largest schemes in Britain. Indeed, many of my constituents who live in that scheme claim that it is the largest housing scheme in the whole of Europe. It has a population of 40,000—the same size as the town of Perth. The problem to which I should like to address myself concerns that of the council house tenants who live in a scheme of that nature and the effect which the proposals being made—I assume that they will be made in Scotland as well—will have upon them and how they will benefit. The Secretary of State for the Environment said that Britain approved of the proposals and that that gave his  Government a mandate for the proposals. The electors in Castlemilk living within Cathcart rejected those proposals resoundingly. It was a very clearcut issue in the campaign that I fought. People were coming to me voluntarily and saying that they did not wish to buy their council houses in Castlemilk. Not only did they not wish to buy them, but they were afraid of the proposals that were being made because their choice would be limited by the selling of council houses in other areas of the city of Glasgow. That was a genuine fear which they felt. The Conservative Party has made great claims about the freedom of the individual and the right of choice. The freedom of choice of my constituents in Castlemilk will be severely limited if council houses are sold in Glasgow. Houses in the better schemes in the city will be sold but they will not be sold in Castlemilk. Some tenants in Castlemilk who wish to move out or transfer into better schemes will not be able to do so. My constituents in Castlemilk also objected to the proposals because of the nature of the houses which they occupy. None of them is a separate house. They are either in multi-storey blocks, tenement blocks or terraces. None of them stands as an independent house in its own right. Let me give the House an example in which there are eight houses standing of a tenement block in a terrace of other similar blocks. One tenant may buy his house and the other seven tenants may not. There may be serious vandalism in the common close, as we call it in Scotland—there is a vandalism problem in Castlemilk. There may be many windows smashed, paint sprayed on walls, and that tenant who owns one-eighth of the property will face a bill for repairs which he will have to meet from his own pocket. That bill could be considerable. That is one of the reasons why the tenants will not purchase their houses—they see the problem of repair bills which are common to a whole block, a multi-storey building, or houses which are contiguous to them. Therefore, the problems of an area like Castlemilk cannot be solved by selling council houses. They cannot be solved by giving the tenants charters. The problems of Castlemilk are not about the individual housing unit within the community but about the problems of a whole community. There has been a failure on the part of all Governments to tackle and solve those problems. They cannot be solved by a return to a private enterprise free economy. Private enterprise has already failed those schemes. Castlemilk has a population of 40,000 and there is not one bank in the whole scheme because there is no profit to be made by a bank in a scheme with a high population but a low income. What is required is massive public intervention. Money should be available to regenerate life within such areas and there should be greater participation by tenants in their lives. We should give tenants a greater say in their own affairs, not by the selling of council houses but by bringing them together into tenants' co-operatives so that they can solve their own problems.
