gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
If I should appear less eager than the hon. and gallant Member who has just spoken to ""knock somebody's block off,"" I hope it will not be thought by the House that I do not sometimes enjoy indulging in that activity. The reason, I would assure the hon. and gallant Member, is that as I am about to make a maiden speech I feel convinced that the traditions of this House are sound and that maiden speakers should endeavour to contribute something to the Debate without being unnecessarily controversial. The process of maiden speeches becomes increasingly familiar to those who listen to them, but the intensity of the ordeal to those who have to make them is constant. It is therefore not entirely owing to the demands of tradition that I ask the House to grant me its indulgence during these next few minutes. I can say to the House, for its own assurance and for my own comfort, that these few minutes will be mercifully short. I would like to say a little about the Americans, from the point of view of one who has had the privilege of sharing the hardships of battle with those great people from the operational and from the administrative point of view. I believe that it has been said before, and that it is worth repeating, that in no environment do men get to know one another so well and so surely as in the environment of war. We British got on so well with the Americans in war that there can surely be no doubt that we can do the same thing in peace. That applies just as strongly to the case of Russia. I cannot say much about Russia because I have not had the privilege or the honour of fighting alongside our Russian Allies. I wish I had. If I say little about Russia I ask the House to believe that what I am about to say in regard to America has to be applied just as much to Russia. The problem is one and indivisible. There must not be one problem between us and America and another problem between us and Russia; but simply because I know a little more about the former I shall dwell on it for a minute or two. I believe that never in our history have the relations between the United States of America and this country been as good as they are now. I believe that that is mainly for the reason that during the  last six years of conflict more Americans have got to know well more British people than has ever been the case hitherto. Our two peoples have been flung together by the necessities of war. I would make the plea that those who lead our two countries should not forget the supreme value of that lesson. The immediate danger as I see it is that in the years to come far too few of each nation—of course I include Russia too—will see each other. If the peoples can work out a scheme whereby a flow of travel from one nation to another can be kept up in ever-growing volume, that scheme will make a very great contribution to world peace. It is only because people are strange to one another that they suffer from mistrust of one another. My right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) said some time ago that the movement of men and women within the Empire had to be made easier and that a two-way traffic should grow. I would like to say that, admirable as that sentiment is, it might well be extended to include the sentiment that the movement of men and women throughout the world should be made easier. There should be a three-way traffic at least. There are two further points which I wish to make. The first is that although understanding between ourselves and the Americans is so good at present, no step should be left untried to improve it. We must not sit back and rest on our laurels. I am optimistic as to the future in that regard, for reasons which I have already given. I feel it may not be stretching the point too far to suggest that one day, by the development of television, we might even be able to have a Debate with Congress. I should like to think that we could do the same with the Kremlin, but the language difficulty might make that a somewhat abortive project. There is one great danger of which I would like to remind the House in connection with this increasing of understanding between the Allies. That is that there are sure to be continuing and growing attempts by those who wish no good to Allied unity to disrupt that unity. When the hon. and learned Member for North Hammersmith (Mr. Pritt) said the other day that we should be very careful when we criticise Russia because that is exactly what the reactionary elements in Germany would desire, I think he was   right. I do not suppose that there is very much of what the hon. and learned Member for North Hammersmith says that I would agree with, but in that I am certain he was right. We cannot be too careful. Exactly the same applies to our relations with America. It is well known that just before the war the actively pro-German elements in America were carrying on a thoroughly successful and subtle propaganda, and there are those who are of the opinion that it was just nipped in the bud in time. We must watch that sort of thing very carefully, because there is no reason whatever to suppose that because Germany has been beaten her reactionaries have altogether thrown up the sponge. The final point I wish to make is very short; it is that unless the eleventh point of President Truman's Twelve Points becomes a reality, none of the remaining eleven is of much use. The eleventh point is the one which postulates freedom of expression and religion. I believe that we have freedom of expression in this country, and I believe that there is freedom of expression in America. I am not sure—and in saying this I beg the House to believe that I have no desire whatever to cause bad relations anywhere—Iam not so sure that that freedom of expression exists in Russia to the extent to which it exists here and in America. Until that freedom of expression, which I believe is as good a common denominator of democracy as can be found, exists evenly throughout the world, there will probably be trouble, and certainly there will be suspicion. That is all I wish to say to the House. I wanted, as best I might, to pay a tribute to those great people, the Americans. At the moment, as I said at the beginning, our relations with them could not be better. I sincerely hope that it is not true that these relations have been in any way worsened from the other side because of a major political event in this country. I see no reason whatever why that should be so. One is entitled to one's view and to express it, and therefore I may say that what may appear to some to be a deviation from the paths of political common-sense need not necessarily be permanent. So, I would say to our American friends that we, as a people, whatever our political views, are a people with a warm heart, and just because occasionally the  warmth of the heart may develop into a slight heat of the head let them not despair. Let them know also that the Prime Minister goes to America with the sincere good wishes of us all, wherever we stand in this House.
