gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This being the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing this House, I must in my criticism of the Bill endeavour to refrain from being too controversial. I would ask the House to consider the incidence of the new impost on petrol, and oils and the Purchase Tax on commercial vehicles particularly in reference to their incidence on agriculture. I believe these to be deplorable taxes because they must force up the cost of living and the cost of food. If further taxes must indeed be raised I can see the possible arguments in favour of the taxing of the fuel of cars, coaches and charabancs in an austere world where many of their journeys can or must be regarded as frivolous. But surely a tax is bad which, in one swipe directed primarily at the road transport industry, falls also indiscriminately on the raw materials of such productive industries as the manufacture of paint, rubber, gelatine, glue, fertilisers, foodstuffs, linoleum and plastics; and as has already-been referred to by one hon. Member opposite this afternoon, the service of dry  cleaning which is an excellent system for the economic preservation of utility garments in an austere world. This duty on hydrocarbon oils will add no less than £5 million a year to the cost of these productive and in many cases exporting industries. All this was taken in, in one swipe, in the imposition of this tax on road transport fuel. In addition to these increases in costs is the increase in the cost of transport which is an element in the price of almost every product in the country. It has been argued that this increase in the cost of road transport can be overcome by diverting the traffic to the railways which, since then, have been permitted to increase their rates. But this diversion of traffic cannot, of course, be done. I would give the House information about a firm with which I am connected personally. It manufactures essential components for power stations and other industrial buildings. These compounds have to be specially and carefully handled. They have to be specially unloaded and stacked on the site of the buildings. This can only be done by drivers and men trained to do that unloading and stacking. It is impossible to divert that sort of traffic to the railways. Therefore, the increased cost of transport to such firms as that must inevitably lead to a further rise in the prices of their products. The new Purchase Tax on lorries will have the effect of keeping the older, less efficient, fuel-wasting vehicles on the roads. It will also tie up a large number of fitters in the garages and repair shops to maintain these vehicles. Those fitters might otherwise be employed in productive industry. The tax is also bound to discourage the increased efficiency of transport departments of firms which could be brought about by introducing new and up-to-date vehicles with their lower consumption and smaller maintenance costs. That is a possible annual improvement in efficiency which will be discouraged as long as the tax remains on these vehicles. Perhaps in the case of electrically propelled vehicles the tax is even more unreasonable. These vehicles do not consume any dollar petrol or oil. As several hon. Members have said, they take electricity for charging their batteries at off-peak periods, which is very much desired by the electricity generating authorities.   It seems most unreasonable that these vehicles should also bear the weight of the tax. In the highly esteemed agricultural industry where the places of production on farms are widely scattered, there is in most cases no alternative to road transport. The element of road transport which comes into the cost of food production must, therefore, once again tend to force up prices. I should like to draw attention to the use of petrol not for transport on farms but for cultivation and other non-transport uses. Here the Chancellor has offered a remission of the increase of 9d. in Petrol Duty. If the remission operates, as I understand it will, by means of a fixed allowance for each implement or machine, it appears to me that at best the system can be but rough and ready and full of anomalies. One farmer might have a tractor in constant use. It might be the only machine he has on his farm. Another man might have two tractors, the second of which he uses only on certain occasions when there is an extra amount of work to be done. Presumably those two tractors would qualify for exactly the same rebate or remission, although one might consume much more fuel than the other in the course of a year. This is a rough and ready system. One farmer might have a milking machine in operation twice every day. Another farmer, perhaps his neighbour over the fence, might use his milking machine only in emergencies. On other occasions he might milk by hand. Presumably, the man who uses his machine only in emergencies will get exactly the same rebate as the man who uses a machine twice a day. That is extraordinary. Then there are stationary engines used on every farm for grinding and crushing feedingstuffs, for pumping water and generating electricity. The anomalies here would be tremendous if a fixed rebate was operated. One man might use an engine once a month, or once a fortnight, for pumping water. Another man might use a similar machine almost every day. I cannot see how the system would operate with any fairness. Even if it was operated, the farmer would still have to bear the full weight of the increased duty until he received his rebate. Unless the Treasury disgorge at more regular intervals than they are in the habit of doing with many of these rebates,  it might be a very long time before the farmer received the money. If a farmer was working on a fairly large scale with a well mechanised farm, he might have to advance a considerable amount of money in a year. The anomaly which existed before the increased duty—that tractors running on paraffin or diesel oil pay no duty whatever—is still not cleared up. That problem has been left untouched. Now that a step has been taken which admits that some kind of remission can be given, the whole position should be inquired into and all the anomalies cleared up. If half a duty can be remitted, why cannot the whole duty be remitted so that the position comes into line and a tractor running on petrol, paraffin or diesel oil will run on duty free fuel. Why should one run on a duty free fuel, and another on a half duty fuel with some kind of remission or rebate? A move should be taken to bring all three into line. The position which has been reached, in agriculture at any rate, is that the industry receives certain subsidies and, on the other hand, pays duty on its fuel to the amount of £2 million a year. The position is somewhat out of balance. It cannot possibly be argued that the whole duty could not be taken off petrol for agricultural tractors and machinery. I believe that the argument in the past has been that there would be too many administrative difficulties, but if it is possible to make a remission of half a duty, why cannot the whole duty be remitted? If the whole duty can be remitted, as it is now for the fishing industry, why cannot it be remitted for the very closely associated farming industry? Fishing boats receive a full remission of duty. Why should not agricultural tractors and machinery also receive a full remission? I suggest to the House an alternative to all these rebates, remissions and drawbacks. Would it not be far simpler and far more equitable to provide duty free supplies of petrol and hydrocarbon oils for industrial and essential agricultural purposes? This would be no revolutionary step, because already diesel oil, on which there is a duty of 1s. 6d. a gallon when it is used in road transport vehicles, is obtained free of duty for industrial use in stationary engines and on farms. It would be parallel with a position which already exists. In the case of alcohol, I suppose that no one would   dream of paying 32s. 4d. for a bottle of methylated spirits. It is no revolutionary proposal to have a duty free commodity available at the same time as one carrying a duty when it is used for another purpose. Petrol, diesel oil and hydrocarbon oils could be made available duty free for the purposes I have mentioned. Perhaps the petrol could be coloured, say, with a blue dye for duty free purposes. That would overcome all the administrative difficulties, all the rebates, remissions and other drawbacks, and it would bring into line the whole of the fuel position. Hydrocarbon oils for industrial purposes would be available in a duty free form, just as are the other raw materials of industry. This step would remove many injustices and anomalies. It would be a move towards lowering the price of food and reducing the cost of living.
