gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I pay tribute to the eloquence and strength of argument in the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Wood Green (Mr. Race). With the aid of the House's most efficient Library service, I have been able to study the maiden speeches made by my three predecessors. In 1935 the late Sydney Silverman made his maiden speech on Socialism, capitalism and unemployment. He spoke for 24 minutes. In 1968 a former Member for Nelson and Colne, my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Clitheroe (Mr. Waddington), spoke for 10 minutes, primarily on housing. I thank my hon. and learned Friend for all his help and guidance. In 1974 Mr. Doug Hoyle spoke for 11 minutes, mainly on the Common Market referendum. Although I may attempt to emulate the eloquence of my three predecessors, I assure the House that in appreciation of being given the opportunity to address the House my speech will be much closer in length to the latter two rather than the first. Many hon. Members will remember the numerous efforts and achievements of previous Members on behalf of my North-East Lancashire constituency. Above all, they will recall the innate kindness and humanity of my three predecessors. I am proud that constituencies such as Nelson and Colne personify all that is best in the United Kingdom and its people. My constituency has witnessed a traumatic change in its traditional labour-intensive textile industry. It grew around the original textile mills which have become synonymous with the industrial North of bygone times. In those days over 90 per cent. of employees worked in the textile industry from an early age. They worked for long hours for limited pay in primitive conditions. Those years of toil are clearly etched on the brows and bodies of so many elderly inhabitants. As one walks on cobbled streets it is easy to visualise the clogged feet hurrying to work in the early hours of the morning. From that background has come a determination of self-reliance and independence which manifests itself in an owner-occupancy level of over 70 per cent. and a tremendous vitality of community spirit and neighbourliness. Today following the decline in textiles, employment in the industry is down to slightly over 20 per cent. of the work force. They are employed predominantly in sub-sidiaries of national and multinational groups or in highly specialised companies. I pay tribute to the massive capital investment programme undertaken by textile managements, to the moderation and co-operation demonstrated by the unions and to the contributions of previous Governments. The problems of dumping and foreign competition still beset us, although the multi-fibre arrangement brought a measure of relief. Today a new weaving machine can cost up to £35,000. To re-equip a whole plant would cost £4 million to £5 million. Companies will not invest that sort of money unless they see a permanent future market for their products. That is why   a commitment to continue with the multi-fibre arrangement well into the 1980s is vital. Nelson and Colne has now broadened its industrial base. It has become a major centre for furniture manufacture, packaging and specialised engineering. Major aerospace companies such as Rolls-Royce and Lucas are just beyond its borders, and it gains much prosperity from them and their sub-contractors. By and large, labour relations are good. It seems to be accepted that there is an optimum size for a manufacturing plant, beyond which relationships and communications fall away. Regrettably, many companies are experiencing a shortage of skilled labour. It is depressing to walk round factory floors and see so much new machinery and equipment imported from abroad. What has become of our machinery manufacturing capabilities? Like so much of the country, Nelson and Colne looks to its small businesses to provide employment and wealth for future generations. My constituency has absorbed a sizeable minority community, and many are now entrepreneurs in their own right. I am happy to say that it has been accomplished with more tolerance and understanding than perhaps has been shown elsewhere. For the most part community relations are good. We are fortunate that just beyond our industrial heart lies some of the most beautiful country in northern England. It is shared by the locals with many visitors and tourists from afar. I make my maiden speech during a historic Budget debate. I pay tribute to my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer for a courageous and radical Budget which marks a determination to change the economic tide and direction of the country. It was Colbert who said: The art of taxation consists in so plucking the goose as to obtain the largest amount of feathers with the least amount of hissing. For the past few years my wealth creators, our skilled and semi-skilled workers, professional managers and business men have paid an awful lot of tax and done an awful lot of hissing. Until this Budget, Governments have tried all forms of grants, subsidies and allowances to increase productivity and wealth. At last we are trying to motivate the individual  by significant tax cuts and by rewarding effort, risk-taking and responsibility. Our great trading companies of old were not created by Price Commissions, Manpower Services Commissions, comparability boards or planning agreements. They were built by individuals of resource endeavour and courage. If one stands back and considers Britain's economic history, one sees that our business backbone was, and to an extent still is, the family business. Governments have rightly given varying degrees of encouragement to these companies. Although many have been outstandingly successful and grown into industrial giants, for too many success has not come. The problem is that too often it has been a matter of complete chance whether the generation who inherited the family business had any interest or ability in it. Hence the clogs-to-clogs syndrome, perhaps bankruptcy for the family, and redundancy or limited security of employment for the work force. Family companies must realise that, in return for taxation and other advantages, they have a responsibility to the nation, a responsibility to augument family control and direction by promotion from within or by the transfusion of management talent from outside. If a member of a family is not up to his task, he should be supported in other activities or given a job in the firm, but he should not be involved in the boardroom or the decision-making process. We approach the remaining 20 years of this century from a base of low productivity and historically high unemployment. Our larger manufacturing companies, striving to compete in world markets in an era of increasing automation and silicon chips, will almost certainly be net shedders of labour. This will be compounded by a continuing decline in the job requirements of our traditional major employing industries such as shipbuilding, steelmaking and heavy engineering. We all recognise that new industries will arise as consumer and market demands change. It is accepted that it is to our small business sector, set free from the inhibiting bonds of legislative, bureaucratic and taxation excesses, that we shall look for new job opportunities, especially for our young people. However, the question must be posed: will this be   enough? Perhaps the time has come to think about the unthinkable and to face the fact that as we move towards the twenty-first century employment opportunities, especially for the unskilled, may be just a mirage and may not exist in the traditional sense. I do not accept that the long-term answer lies in creating artificial jobs or in swelling the ranks of the already excessive public sector. Nor does it lie in overmanning or the nonsense of interunion demarcation lines. The late Sydney Silverman said in his 1935 speech: I have heard many speakers inside and outside this House talk about the tragedy of unemployment, the disease of unemployment and how we can cure unemployment. I do not regard unemployment as a disease, I do not want to cure it. I want to see more and more unemployment.""—[Official Report, 11 December 1935; Vol. 307, c. 1024.] Those are strange words, but what Mr. Silverman was getting at was that the achievements of technology and the march of civilisation inexorably produce this form of labour surplus and that when it comes it should provide earlier retirement, greater leisure opportunities and a better quality of life for our people than perhaps existed hitherto. Perhaps non-employment rather than unemployment would be a more apposite description. To provide for our non-employed and properly to care for the sick, the needy and the disabled in our society, our wealth-creating private sector has an even greater and more vital role to play. Only in profitable industry are permanent real wealth created and new employment opportunities generated. That is why I welcome the chance of making my maiden contribution, in this historic Budget debate, in support of the measures outlined by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
