gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
From what I have recently heard I can begin my first address to the House by saying that my predecessor was respected on both sides of the House and that this respect was widely shared in the constituency which he represented for so many years. In his interesting contribution, the hon. Member for Sunderland, South (Mr. P. Williams) began with a reference to France which I echo, but he went on to put forward a number of reasons from which, on another occasion, I would very seriously dissent. However. I support his general plea that we must always be mindful that our friendship and relations with France are of a special and specially important nature. Governments come and Governments go, as do policies, but the underlying basis of our friendship will, I hope, remain for all time. This debate is specially concerned with the Geneva Conference, but because of the terms under which it is taking place, we have a welcome opportunity to branch out into a discussion of somewhat wider problems. In the recent by-election in which I was involved I was struck by the interesting fact that, in spite of what Gallup polls may report, many people asked me specific questions on foreign policy, and in particular, about the link between defence policy and foreign policy. Not only at public meeting but, equally significant, in private, I had a good deal of contact with a number of ex-Service men of my own generation. I suppose that it was natural that those who belonged to that generation, and who had gone through the war together, would make particular contact with each other. I was deeply impressed by the fact that a great many of these people, of my own age group, were deeply disturbed by the thought that nuclear  weapons will be supplied to Germany. I advisedly use the term ""Germany"", because most of those people did not make any distinction between West Germany and East Germany. It is, I think, true that a large number of people, not because they are particularly Chauvinistic or nationalistic, but because they have a sense of history, are deeply disturbed by the preparations that are obviously being made to supply such weapons in the first place, I understand, to West Germany. That is bound to be followed by an equal supply to East Germany. The present international situation seems to be particularly dangerous, because the crisis is below surface and somewhat suppressed. There is an assumption that because of the passing of time and the denial of time limits, and generally the feeling that another conference might follow yet another conference, the situation is not as dangerous as it appears. I dissent from that view. I believe that there are a number of developments now taking place which, unless they are dealt with, and in spite of a continuous series of conferences, may yet lead to disaster. The policy that we are pursuing and have been pursuing over a number of years has been based upon the formula of creating so much strength on our side that we might be in a position to talk to the other side in terms that would undo some of the results of the last war. I am certain that that was the underlying purpose of that policy. It must be clear to everybody that it has not succeeded. I saw the significance of the efforts of the Prime Minister in recent weeks in an early and first realisation—although not early enough, perhaps, for a good many of us—that that policy had to be abandoned and a new one substituted. For what it may be worth, I started my own little campaign by emphasising how delighted we should be on our side in wishing the Prime Minister success and how we hoped that he, would insist upon what appeared to be his policies at the time. Why should it be that so much influence has been given to other Powers at the Geneva Conference, and where is the link between that influence and N.A.T.O. policy? One of the grave   dangers of the present international situation is the belief of a good many people, some of them in high positions, in a number of countries, that we have reached the point of no return and that war is inevitable. The first consequence of such a conviction is very serious indeed. It turns every problem of international policy into a problem of strategy. It makes the generals more important than the political leaders. It leads to an attitude of mind in which political leaders are all too easily prepared to blur the frontier between policy making and strategic decisions. Let me quote a recent example to illustrate my point. The Vice-President of the United States of America, Mr. Nixon, was in this country not long ago. I was glad to see that he engaged in serious discussion both with the leaders of the Government, as was his primary purpose, and with the leaders of the Opposition. When he returned to the United States, he gave an interview to two American newspapers. I do not believe that that interview was properly republished in sufficient detail in this country at the time. When questioned on his discussion with the leaders of the Opposition on the policy of disengagement, Mr. Nixon said that he had had a discussion on disengagement, but felt, after having received the advice of the military commanders of N.A.T.O., who were in London at the time, that it was a policy that he could not support. There was no consideration whatever of the serious political implications of the policy put forward by the Opposition. Nor was Mr. Nixon further questioned—and this is why I quote the illustration—as to whether there were any other aspects to be considered. It appeared from that reply that the decision and view of the N.A.T.O. commanders was enough to make him abandon any further serious consideration of that policy. I do not believe that Mr. Nixon is the only international statesman who sometimes adopts this attitude. If my analysis of these matters is correct, is it not important at this stage that in what I consider to be the helpful atmosphere of this debate, everything we say, although sometimes critical as well as sometimes approving, should in some  way be helpful to the efforts of the Foreign Secretary? Is it not true that the time has come for what I would call parallel negotiations? There are a number of people in international politics who do not wish that there should be too much success and who are against a summit meeting. The Chancellor of West Germany is one of them and there are others. I believe that in his heart of hearts, Herr Ulbricht, the leader of East Germany, is equally unconcerned about agreement between the two sides, because he also is a profiteer of the disagreement between East and West. There are a number of people, of whom the Chancellor of West Germany is one, who have stated frankly that they do not believe in serious negotiations at the present time. They do not wish any serious negotiations to take place. Therefore, they are against a Summit Conference, because it is generally agreed that there can be serious negotiations only at that level. Why are those people against negotiations? They argue that any result of such negotiations could only help the Russians. To me, that is a profoundly mistaken view, but it makes sense from the viewpoint of people like Dr. Adenauer. It makes sense in the direction that whilst we in this country, and a great many people in America and elsewhere, have realised that there is no time to be wasted, the Chancellor of West Germany and some of his military advisers are determined that a number of years should be wasted and that he can then start negotiating a peace treaty with the East, when he is in possession of a huge West German army supplied with nuclear bombs. That strategy is profoundly dangerous to this country. It is on that basis that we should urge Her Majesty's Government to think in terms of parallel negotiations. Whilst it may not be possible at the Conference at Geneva to talk about the wider problems straight away, and while there may be some hope of limited success, surely it should be possible to indicate through diplomatic channels that we are prepared to reconsider the future status of a reunited Germany and to begin the process of serious negotiations upon what ought to happen after the day of reunification, that we are prepared to accept a status of limitation in   the interests of international peace and that we will abandon the shop-worn formula of West Germany joining whomever it likes, because we know that it will join N.A.T.O. and nothing else. I believe that the dictatorial Communist régime in East Germany, which, in my opinion, no matter what travellers' tales we might hear, enjoys little support among the people of East Germany, would also be put in a difficult position, because once there is agreement between Britain and the Soviet Union, once there is agreement between East and West on the future terms of the military status of Germany after reunification, the problem of free elections will fall into place. It is my profound belief that it is strategic fear on both sides that keeps us in a position of dangerous immobility. For what it may be worth, I should like to repeat my suggestion of parallel negotiations and to hear the views of the Prime Minister as to whether hope can be entertained of getting out of this dangerous deadlock, which may end, as I said before, in disaster to our people.
