gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The House jealously accords a maiden speaker a great deal of tolerance and I trust that I shall not strain it when addressing myself to what is so obviously a controversial subject. I should probably begin, as my constituents would wish, essentially non-controversial, with a tribute to my predecessor, Sir David Ormsby-Gore. Whatever opinions and divisions we may have in this House, there will, I think, be general agreement that our relations with the United States are of the utmost importance and all would unite in sending him their best wishes for the work he is doing there. This debate has naturally turned on economic matters, to which for a short while I should like to address myself. Perhaps the right hon. Member for Easington (Mr. Shinwell) will bear with me if I do not follow some of the rather interesting points which he elaborated in his speech. I should, first, like to record that I count it a privilege during my eight months in the House to have supported the economic policies of my right  hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wirral (Mr. Selwyn Lloyd). To my mind, those policies were carried out courageously and with tenacity. I suspect that in some ways almost a guilt complex swept over the nation with the considerable sympathy that was accorded to my right hon. and learned Friend a few days ago. In saying that I would add my best wishes—if it is not arrogant to offer my best wishes to the new Chancellor of the Exchequer. I believe it is an appointment which will be widely welcomed in industry. I think that in this sense it is a change which could have welcome effects, because one of the difficulties of our present situation is undoubtedly a serious lack of business confidence, and while I welcome the news that the policies enunciated last July are in their essence to be continued, I hope that we may see a return to business confidence, which I believe is necessary to stimulate the economy and improve our situation. I am sure the Government have been conscious of the importance of business confidence, and they certainly have benefited from the experience of the Kennedy régime in the United States of America where I think the unfortunate clash between the business community and the Administration has had very real lessons for Governments throughout the West. I now return to the support which I offered to my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wirral as the previous Chancellor. I believe that very few Chancellors in post-war Governments have found many friends when they have been fighting inflation. I think that industry has found inflation a fairly cosy aid to profits, and the trade unions—and heaven knows, one cannot expect otherwise from their leaders—through inflation have been able to get good rewards. I do not blame them. It is the job of their leaders to do their best for their union members and to get all the rewards they can. However, I do not think that the public arbitration system has been of any particular assistance in the situation in which the Government have been operating. There is a curious predisposition on the part of the public to regard arbitration as some kind of sacred cow which must not be tampered with. I do not share that opinion, and I am confirmed   in this view by some recent remarks of Mr. Henry Smith, the Vice-Principal of Ruskin College, who in a Hobart Paper, ""The Wage Fixers"", says: The task of arbitrators is to ensure as far as possible that a similar wage is paid for identical work. If this tends to increase inflationary pressure, the prevention of inflation is the responsibilty of government. I must say that I thought this a very fair expression of view about arbitration, and I noticed from the remarks of the Prime Minister that public opinion will be relied upon in the new policies. Undoubtedly the sanction of public opinion is very important, but to my mind it can never be a substitute for Government action and Government policy and Government resolve. I was interested to see the speculation in the newspapers, notably in the Financial Times, which suggested that younger Members of Parliament differ from their elders in being more reflationary. If I may quote the Financial Times—in reading which, I notice, I am in very distinguished company—I would quote from the issue of 19th July, which says: To some extent the division between the two views runs along the lines of age. Broadly it is the older members who are the sternest supporters of""— my right hon. and learned Friend's— policies in the belief that they are essential for sterling. But younger M.P.s take a distinctly more expansionist line. It has been said that only a few, such as my right hon. Friend the Member for Flint, West (Mr. Birch), are serious opponents of inflation. I think that is absolute nonsense. If there is one thing which unites these benches it is the determination that we have to counter the inflationary pressures. It is not a question of being hardhearted economists but of being concerned with social problems, for just as before the war unemployment was the great social scandal so today it is the inflation which we have had in the last decade and a half which has created no less a social problem than unemployment did in the interwar years. Before the war one could point to Jarrow and South Wales and say that that was something shocking and disgraceful which ought to command the attention of the Government, but in the post-war years, because of the spread of inflation ail over the  country, the public conscience has been dulled on this issue, so that no Government in tackling this issue has had that support from public opinion which they might have expected. Some of us would take the view that the approach to the post-war problems has far too often been dominated by concern with pre-war conditions. I turn now to the remarks of the right hon. Member for Easington (Mr. Shin-well), who chided the Prime Minister for still not holding the same views that he held thirty years ago. I think it would be absolutely disastrous if our economic policies were dominated by the kind of thinking provoked by mass unemployment in the inter-war years. I hope I do not sound pedantic or like a lecturer, but I would say that the present concern with the fashion of growth has been a thoroughly bad thing. I certainly found highly entertaining the remarks by Colin Clark about growth-manship, in his Hobart paper. To my mind, of the various forms of fixed investment normally associated with growth appears too indiscriminate an approach to our problems. Certainly the best kind of investment for long-term growth is education In that connection, I thoroughly welcome the new team at the Ministry of Education. May I just very briefly return to the policies enunciated last July. They were referred to by the Leader of the Opposition as being some sort of colossal failure. I hope I am not being too controversial, but I must say that I really do part company from that point of view. After all, the right hon. Gentleman elaborated a number of factors which he believed showed the disastrous failure of the policies of my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wirral, but he did not mention the recent rise in exports which have risen for five consecutive months. I would have thought that rising exports, while I willingly concede that they reflect the growing buoyancy in world trade, also reflect an increasing cost-consciousness in British industry, and I believe that the measures taken by my right hon. and learned Friend and the Government last July have been beneficial. This was conceded by the Leader of the Opposition when he admitted our imports had fallen and the balance of payments had   improved. But for the measures taken last July the pressure on sterling would have been completely uncontrollable and any consequential devaluation would have been disastrous to the Commonwealth at the crucial time of the Brussels negotiations However, the Leader of the Opposition only made a passing reference to the Brussels negotiations. The Leader of the Opposition claimed that our imports were now rising. It seems to me an extraordinary exaggerated claim. In the second quarter of this year imports were at a monthly rate of £369 million compared with a monthly rate of £367 million in the first quarter. This is an increase, but it is only just the barest perceptible increase. I also think that the right hon. Gentleman dismissed rather casually that the index of industrial production was showing an upward trend. I believe that there is already a healthier attitude towards costs, and I believe that by far the most eloquent commentary on the work done by the Government and by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Wirral is contained in remarks by Mr. E. Russell Eggers of the Chase Manhattan Bank, who said recently: British industry is a lot more competitive than a lot of people think just now. He said that the competitiveness of our industry will be one of the delightful surprises if Britain joins the Common Market. This kind of remark makes up for many of the taunts we have so often heard on this subject. Naturally as a Tory—I hope, a reasonably progressive one—I tend to favour expansion. I think the timing must still largely be dependant on the American situation. I think the present view of industry, to which I referred earlier, and the definite lack of confidence, must be taken into account although I believe that part of that lack of confidence is due to industry now operating in a much healthier climate where inflationary costs cannot just be handed on. Naturally this has provoked a reaction. Nonetheless, if we are to give the country a general stimulus, I think that there is a need for something more than action on consumer spending, and I hope that something will be done about industrial  costs. I have in mind a reduction of fuel costs. To my mind, in this present situation, an obvious factor is the buoyancy of Government expenditure. I believe that it has a natural, and, as some would say, a depressing tendency to rise, and I think it certainly will rise. In this context, perhaps I could make a special constituency plea. I have not referred to my constituency—the Oswestry division—previously, but, while it is largely agricultural, it has in the town of Oswestry railway workshops, and the railways loom very large in the economy of my constituency. To my mind, if we are to face the problems of the 'sixties, we should not merely accept but actually desire changes in the railways system which will release a large amount of valuable labour for employment in growth sectors of British industry. The same is probably true of the coal mines, though I will not be so provocative as to follow that line of argument. May I suggest that the Government should accept the chance that is presented to them by the new railway structure as a chance to give an imaginative lead in redundancy schemes? In the Economist last week, it was tentatively suggested that Dr. Beeching's proposals in regard to redundancy would cost between £15 million and £20 million, and, on the other hand, there were the tentative proposals put forward by the Secretary-General of the National Union of Railwaymen, which would cost something between £60 million and £80 million. It would be quite improper for me to go into detail now about that, but it seems to me that the changes in our railway structure should come, and should come soon, and that, therefore, this additional cash in the form of redundancy payments should be one factor which I hope the Chancellor of the Exchequer will bear in mind when determining the level of buoyancy in public expenditure. I believe that whatever terms are accepted should, at least, be equal to the best provided by private industry. I think we owe it to the railwaymen, who, I believe, have been a woefully underpaid body of men in the decades since the war. I hardly know whether the ordeal of making a maiden speech is greater than   the ordeal of fighting a by-election. I was described as indistinguishable from the Labour candidate by the Sunday Express, but worse was to follow, because the Guardian referred to me as ""an impeccable Liberal"". It was meant as a compliment, though I could not accept it as such because, to my mind, there is in all parties of the Left an element of escapism, though I would not presume to follow that line of argument. There are two main challenges for the Government. One is the successful pursuit of an incomes policy which will restore public and foreign confidence in sterling, and I believe that confidence in sterling to be the prime concern of good Government. The second I believe to be an approach to the new Europe in a spirit of enterprise rather than of pessimism. It was quite extraordinary to find that a speech from the Leader of the Opposition which was designed to indicate to the nation that we should have a General Election in order to replace this Government did not contain anything other than a passing and quite irrelevant reference to the problems which my right hon. Friend the Lord Privy Seal is facing in Brussels. Is it suggested that anyone can make a case for changing the Government without any reference to the negotiations now going on? Is it seriously thought on the Opposition Front Bench that there is anyone there who can be classed as half equal to the Lord Privy Seal? I realise that I have been a little controversial, and I apologise. It is probably just as well that at this juncture I should conclude my speech. For me, it is the Government who have accepted the challenge that confronts us in the 'sixties, and it is the detractors of the Government on all sides who shrink from the opportunities and realities of the situation.
