gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in this debate and for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this House. I seek the traditional indulgence and tolerance for which the House is renowned towards maiden speakers. Although I am often referred to as the hon. Member for Monmouthshire, I have formally to decline the distinction, because I am in fact the Member for Monmouth, and I might say that no man   could ever represent a more beautiful, varied and interesting constituency. To the east we look to the Forest of Dean and the rich lush meadows of England, and to the west to the soft green hills of Wales. It is from this position as a border county that we derive our sense of pride in our unique position which is best summed up in the words England, Wales and Monmouthshire. Small wonder that the county's motto Utrique fidelis, Faithful to both, should illustrate our double allegiance to both England and Wales. It is with great pleasure that I should now like to refer to my two predecessors as Members for Monmouth. My immediate predecessor was a yonng man who gained the highest regard and affection of all those who met him, and who represented the Monmouth constituency well during the period from 1966 until June last year. I know that there are many hon. Members on both sides of the House who will join me in wishing him well in his new career. But for over 20 years the Monmouth constituency was served by, in fact the name of the constituency was almost synonymous with that of, Peter Thorneycroft, who now, as Lord Thorneycroft, sits in another place, and I am glad to say still makes a contribution to the public life of this country. I am very proud to follow a man who has made such a significant contribution to public affairs. I should now like to turn to the Bill that we are discussing and to the Amendment which has been tabled in the names of the right hon. Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) and his hon. Friends on the Front Bench opposite. I listened with admiration to the eloquence of the hon. Member for Greenock (Dr. Dickson Mabon). His quotation about the little pig going to the bacon factory almost drew a tear from my eyes. But despite his strictures—and they were hard on my hon. Friend the Member for North Angus and Warns (Mr. Buchanan-Smith)—I still look upon the Bill, which the hon. Gentleman seemed to castigate severely for being inadequate, as fulfilling a pledge. The hon. Gentleman is obviously an all out derating man—that was the implication of his speech, which I found most interesting—but I nevertheless look upon this Measure as  a welcome example of the way in which the Conservative Party honours pledges given when in opposition. I gave this pledge on the faith that I had in our leadership. I therefore welcome the Bill, because it honours a pledge that was given by me on behalf of my party, and I like to see pledges honoured in this era when so much of political affairs is looked upon with cynicism by so much of the electorate. If there were no other justification for the Bill, it would undoubtedly be justified on the ground put forward by my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State, that the law on this subject has got into a quite incomprehensible tangle. I assure the House that I wish no disrespect to it when I say that at one time noble Law Lords—and I hasten to add that I wish no disrespect to another place—were sinking deeper and deeper into the fertiliser. Those who are familiar with the earlier cases will appreciate the point that I am making. They extricated themselves with some difficulty, but there is still undoubted confusion, and on those grounds alone the Bill is deserving of support. But there are other grounds. The present state of the law is frustrating the intention of the 1928 legislation which derated agricultural buildings in England, Wales and Monmouthshire, and it is important to note, as has been referred to briefly, but not taken up by hon. Gentlemen opposite, that in the present state of the law it is not only the intensive farming buildings which they dislike so much, but many of the traditional forms of agriculture, which are in peril of becoming rated, and I point out that although when we are talking about the global total of the effect of this on the total of rate revenues this seems a miniscule amount, when the point is made that £1 million is a small sum to return to the industry, what is important, and it cannot be denied, is that many farmers are making miniscule profits at the present time, and have been for some years. Under these circumstances, the full pressure of technology has had to be brought in aid under economic stress, and it does not need very much to topple the small man. My heart does not bleed for the big man, but I certainly think that many hon. Members, on both sides of the House, with agricultural constituencies   will know of many people who are in peril of having to bear a rate burden which was never intended, and who cannot afford it. It seems to me that the Amendment attacks the problem in the wrong way. It tries to make out that intensive animal production is not agricultural. This seems to me to be indefensible. Animal production for the purpose of providing food must, by definition, whatever adjective one uses, be an agricultural process, and when one appreciates how small the number of people in this country who are now engaged in agriculture is, and who meet so well the tremendous requirements of urban and industrial populations, it seems entirely wrong to set about attacking a rating Bill which sets out to relieve this sector by bringing in questions of farming practice which are described so often as factory farming. I yield to no one on either side of the House in my views on factory farming, but let us get this clear. Under the previous Government—and I pay tribute to them—codes of practice for animal welfare were introduced. It is our duty, therefore, not to confuse the issue by bringing in arguments about derating. It is our duty to look to those codes to see that they are properly carried out, strengthened as time will permit, and ultimately brought up to a standard of animal production of which we, the public and the farmers can be proud. I conclude by making two brief points to my hon. Friends. The first is about the loss of revenue. We know that the loss of rate revenue throughout the country is relatively small, but—and this is the difficulty—this loss will fall in the main on the poorer, smaller rural authorities, and I therefore ask my hon. Friends—they will be bringing in measures on local government finance—to look at this matter with a view to helping those authorities out of the difficulty, because I remind them that a little fertiliser spread around does a lot of good, and this help is needed by these authorities. Finally, I would draw attention to the problem over the word ""solely"" in Clause I, which refers to a ""substantial part of the time"". Trying to take the House into Committee would not be permitted, but I believe that this definition should be carefully looked into, because  there is a possible misunderstanding which could throw the courts and the law back into confusion. I hope that we will look at this line very carefully in Committee. I thank the House for its courtesy and the attention with which it has listened to me and I urge hon. Members on both sides to support the Bill.
