gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very glad to have this opportunity of raising a matter of equal interest to both sides of the House, and of drawing attention to the importance, urgency, and dangers of the present newsprint situation in this country. In doing so I hope I may have the indulgence of the House as this is the first time that I have had the honour of addressing it. At the same time, I would like to say that, although I am not uninterested in the advertising side of the newspaper industry, I am making a plea for an urgent consideration of this matter on far wider grounds than mere advertising. Not very long ago a committee of U.N.E.S.C.O. was set up to investigate the Press conditions in 12 European countries. Our country was not included. They put on record this statement: That the Commission considers that to cover satisfactorily both national and international as well as local news, in addition to providing a proportion of lighter matter and advertising, a newspapers needs to have at least eight standard size pages. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and hon. Gentlemen on both sides are probably aware that far from having the eight-page standard paper in this country, our newspapers will be reduced to six pages. Having struggled to get up from four pages to seven for a penny national newspaper, from July they are to be reduced to six pages with a corresponding reduction for provincial papers. Even this six-page paper has only been made possible by a very belated concession from the Board of Trade to the Newsprint Supply Company that they could import 25,000 tons of newsprint during the second half of this year. There is no certainty yet whether we shall obtain the required newsprint because the concession has been made so late; or that we can, from present sources, maintain even a six-page paper in the fourth quarter of this year. Furthermore, the Board of Trade has made no pronouncement on the newsprint that will be available from 1951 onwards. Before the war newspapers, as opposed to magazines, used over 22,000 tons of newsprint each week in keeping us supplied with information, recreation, news, opinions and ideas. The war reduced this to 5,000 tons. Today, five years afterwards, despite excellent plans and contracts made with various countries, and in particular Canada, we find that present usage will not much exceed 10,000 tons, or about half the pre-war figure. It is sad to reflect that our newspapers today national and provincial, are among the smallest in the world. By contrast, ""Le Soir"" in Brussels, with the largest circulation in Belgium, appears regularly with 12 to 16 pages. In France, important dailies such as ""Figaro"" and ""Le Monde"" have eight to 12 pages. Canada's usage has gone up to 174 per cent., and the United States to 157 per cent., and even in France it is 88 per cent. of pre-war usage. Before the war, if quantity of newsprint used is a guide, and of course it is only a rough guide, we were among the best-informed people in the world. Per head of population we used 58 lb. of newsprint a year, compared with the United States use per head of 56 lb. Last year the United States usage had gone up to 70 lb. per head, while we were reduced to the melancholy figure of 26 lb. per head. Indeed, it is probably true to say that of all the countries in Europe, only one—Germany behind the Iron Curtain—is worse off in this regard than ourselves. For while in the Western Zone of Germany consumption is 88 per cent. compared with pre-war, in the Eastern Zone it is only 36 per cent. We know, of course, that it is the deliberate policy of the Soviet Government to keep out news of the outside world. Our policy, luckily, is the very opposite. Today the home mills are producing more newsprint than at any time since the war ended British mills supply 70 per cent. of their pre-war output, and, owing to the effects of bombing and other factors, they are working to their full capacity. There is no hope of expansion from the British mills until new plant is in operation. Our supplies of pulp from Scandinavia have been pushed up to near pre-war levels, yet supplies of newsprint from Canada remained at only one-third of pre-war levels in 1948 and 1949, while in 1950 they have been reduced to only one-twelfth—that is the   25,000 tons recently authorised by the President of the Board of Trade—which is less than two-thirds of one per cent. of their production. On the other hand, the United States will be using a further 250,000 tons this year, which is 6 per cent. more than last year. One of the reasons for the newsprint shortage in the world is the apparently insatiable demands of the United States. Important metropolitan papers in the United States have from 48 to 72 pages daily, while their Sunday papers are gigantic—ranging from 200 to 300 pages each issue. Moreover, while the main supplier of the United States is Canada, in addition to their own domestic mills, the United States are also large buyers of Scandinavian pulp, with the result that the price of our imports of pulp from Scandinavia has skyrocketed. This, of course, has serious repercussions on the costs of the newspaper industry, and on industrialists who use the columns of the Press for their advertising. Obviously, the main reason for this situation is the fact that we can purchase from Scandinavia in sterling, whereas Canadian supplies must be obtained by dollars. Canada and Newfoundland were the only sources of supply during the war, and since the war, with the full support of the Government, the newspaper industry has negotiated a 10-year contract for the purchase of some 300,000 tons of newsprint a year. Hardly had this agreement been signed when it was cut to 100,000 tons. Three times since the war we have had to dishonour contracts with Canada, made in face of keen competition from other foreign buyers, and I think it says much for Canada's friendship and loyalty that, in spite of this conduct, she has remained sympathetic and has accepted our economic plight as partially, but only partially, the explanation. Today, 85 per cent. of Canada's gross output goes to the United States, as against 72 per cent. pre-war, and capacity is almost at full stretch. The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs said in London only last week, that Canada needs United States dollars, that the United States was her best customer, but that he hoped circumstances would not force the Dominion to make a choice of markets between the United Kingdom and the United States.  I am sure that it is in the long-term interests of both countries that we should expand our orders of newsprint from Canada and should aim at seeing that at least one-third of our newsprint supply comes from Canada. Moreover, we should order enough now to keep the existing contracts alive and to ensure that this trade between the United Kingdom and Canada is not lost for ever. The President of the Board of Trade has authorised the purchase of some 25,000 tons for the second half of this year. What would a further 75,000 tons cost, to make it 100,000 tons a year? I estimate that at most it would be only £3 million sterling, or only 1½ per cent. of our 1949 imports from Canada. Surely ways and means could be devised to make this possible. No one would wish to import newsprint at the expense of food or other vital raw materials, but I think this Government—and I say it with reluctance—is guilty of discriminating against the British daily Press, both national and provincial. The newspapers are not asking for any specially favourable treatment, but I think they are rightly protesting against receiving specially unfavourable treatment. While magazines are back to roughly 90 per cent. of pre-war consumption of paper, the daily Press, as I have pointed out, is receiving only about half of its pre-war consumption, despite the fact that the population of this country has risen by some 5 per cent. The demand for information and opinions is still unsatisfied. The small size of our newspapers has led to more and more people buying more and more copies of different newspapers, despite the fact that in the main those newspapers carry exactly the same news. Only a few items are different, but those different items are absolutely vital if our people are to obtain a balanced and fuller judgment of affairs. In spite of the increase from four to seven pages, this tendency to buy more and more newspapers continues, and I suggest that that is significant of the fact that the people of this country are starved of news. Before the war we could claim that this country had one of the best informed and most politically mature electorates in the world. Today the nation runs the danger of being half-informed, which to my mind is far worse than being uninformed, on   issues. Because or the small size or our newspapers, conferences of great importance, such as that which has just concluded at Sidney, received only a mere half-column or so. The public is being reduced to reading headlines and potted summaries, yet these events throughout the world are of vital importance to all of us. The people need far more public discussion in the Press on issues of supreme importance, such as the position of this country after Marshall Aid ceases in 1952. Again, the people need to be made aware of the incredible swiftness and importance of events happening in South-East Asia. Not long ago, Mr. Sulzberger, of the ""New York Times ""—and I think we ought to weigh his words very carefully—said that Britain was risking the fundamental democracy of her people by rationing their information, and he described this as a threat to democratic life. All, I am sure, would agree that an efficient and thorough Press  is, as Lord Burnham once said, the first requirement of democracy. The journalists of this country have performed wonders; they have succeeded in getting quarts into pint pots. They have performed their difficult task so well that it may not be realised how badly, in fact, we have forced them to do it. I believe that the Press, national and local, is and can be most important in helping to stage a great industrial comeback and to solve a good many of our social and political problems. But it cannot do it with its present restricted dimensions. With our newspapers among the smallest in the world today we are in danger of keeping our own people starved of essential information. So great a friend of this country as Sir Keith Murdoch of Australia has said that Britain has today a poor fund of information about international affairs. More important even than that, we are also losing prestige abroad. Today, not only are fewer copies of the British Press going abroad but the matter in them is so compressed and they are so small that they cannot adequately portray and reflect the British way of life. One of the quickest stimulants to our export drive and to securing our position as one of the leaders in the world would be, I am sure, to increase the size and quantity of papers going abroad. Therefore, I urge the President of the Board of Trade to do all he can to see that our Press is not among the smallest in the world and if possible to restore the original contract for importing at least 100,000 tons of newsprint a year, for three reasons—first, because we owe it to our own people; second, because it would raise our prestige abroad; and third, because we owe it to our sister nation Canada, who has continuously stood by us so faithfully all these years.
