gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I trust that I shall have all that toleration and encouragement which are so freely showered by the House on those who make their maiden effort. As I have been sitting here, for the major part of this afternoon, the thought has occurred to me that I know not as yet the exhaustion that may follow the maiden effort, but I already endure the exhaustion that has preceded it. I enter on this discussion, not as a financial expert, but as the representative, in this House, of a constituency which has suffered most grievously in years gone by from the financial experts. The Tradeston Division of Glasgow, like so many of the great industrial constituencies of Glasgow, can attribute, I think, its housing problems, its slums, its unemployment, its infant mortality rate, and its tubercular death rate to the financial policy which has been pursued by Governments in this country in years gone by. It was in the last Parliament, I believe, that a speaker in this House, referring to the infant mortality rate in Scotland, stated that the average rate for Scotland was 68 per 1,000. The Tradeston Division has an infant mortality rate of 137 per 1,000, more than double the average rate for Scotland as a whole. That position in Scotland was described in this House as appalling. The present position in the Tradeston Division would lead those who would seek to describe it in words to say that it baffles description. Because of that, I venture to-day, having seen the ravages of that financial policy, to enter on this discussion. I want to bring to the mind of the House one of the decisions which aggravated and intensified the position in the constituency which I represent. I refer to a Treasury Minute of November, 1919—which I take it was issued in consultation with, and having the approval of, the Bank of England—curtailing the quantity of money in circulation in Great Britain. I submit that that decision of the Treasury, in collaboration with the Bank of England, led to all the industrial and social unrest that followed in the years between the two wars. I suggest that the Opposition now find themselves on that side of the House because the people of this country decided that what took place after the last war shall not be repeated after this war. If the Tory Party decide that while in the wilderness they will still pursue the worship of the golden calf, they have no right to call on the Government to follow them in their idolatry. I suggest that the policy, the results of which I have described, was the direct outcome of certain monetary beliefs which are inherent in capitalist economy. Let us consider briefly—I do not propose to investigate them, but simply to mention them—the beliefs dictating the former policy which led to those industrial and social results. What are they? First, that the quantity of money available is limited; secondly, that the money is private property; and thirdly, that those individuals and nations who desire to produce commodities must borrow that money and must pay rent for its hire. I suggest that if the Bill before us is going to mean anything in overcoming the social and industrial disabilities which I have described, it must present a challenge to those three fundamental precepts in capitalist economy. First, the Bill says, in   effect, that money is no longer private property, and having said that it must take the second step; it must encourage the tendency towards a lower rate of interest, towards a zero rate of interest in the end; and thirdly, it must utilize the capital assets that will be created in housing, for example, to expand, and not to contract our economy as the Tory party did in days gone by. It is because I believe that the Bill in essence offers those fundamental challenges that I welcome it. Tory policy has led in the past to a contracting economy, to poverty, and in the end to war. I believe this Bill will lead to an expanding economy, and to the health, wealth and happiness of this country as a whole.
