gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As the new Member of Parliament for Pontefract, I should like, first, to pay a passing tribute to the late Member, who died suddenly last October at the comparatively early age of 62. I understand that when making a maiden speech, one has to be careful not to be controversial. That is why I have selected the Budget on which to  speak. Therefore, if in my remarks I appear to be controversial, it has not been done deliberately or with malice aforethought. The constituency that I represent is tripartite in character, consisting of the old Borough of Pontefract, the new Borough of Castleford and the Urban District of Featherstone. It is a compact area, easily manageable—let me hasten to say, from a travelling sense and not from a majority sense—and it has a very good history. Historically, Pontefract was built around a huge castle that was built in the times of the Normans. Four sieges have taken place at that castle, which is now in ruins, and King Richard II of England and the Earl of Rivers were put to death in it. I do not know who put them to death. I do not lay that at the door of the Tories. In addition, Pontefract is, unique in toeing a borough of long standing and having its own Royal Charter with the Commission of the Peace. Castleford has strong historical links in that it was a Roman settlement. The Roman road still runs from Pontefract to Castleford and is still an effective link between the two towns. The most interesting history of the lot is that of Featherstone. Some older hon. Members will remember it and others will find it interesting, so I will go into a little detail. My doing so will enable hon. Members on the benches opposite to recharge themselves for the ensuing debate on the Budget. Some of the history of Featherstone was made no less than sixty-nine years ago, during the great lock-out of 1893. During that lockout an undertaking was given by the manager of the local pit to the workmen that he would not do a certain thing. Like a good many managers, he betrayed that trust and the men, not liking it one bit, uptipped the wagons which he had ordered to be filled with inferior coal. The manager did not like that at all and he went for police reinforcements. But the police, all 269 of them, had gone to Doncaster races, so they were not available. He got his horse and buggy and want to Wakefield and asked Lord St. Oswald, the owner of a neighbouring pit, for protection for his own pit—as if the pit needed protection; it is still there. As a result, the militia were called out from York and came under their captain to the pit, to find nobody there. When the people of the district heard that the militia were at the pit, they went to see what it was all about. After some brawling, the militia decided to return home and marched back to the station. However, the magistrate was at the station and he told the militia that their job was at the pit, so they marched back to the pit. While all this was going on, two small boys, who had got tired of waiting for bonfire day, set fire to the stacks of timber in the colliery yard. The glow from the resulting conflagration could be seen in the sky and it drew people from all walks of life, not just miners, from surrounding districts to the spot. When they heard that the militia had agreed to go home, and had then come back, they started to stone the building in which the militia were housed. Without hesitation, the magistrate read the Riot Act of 1714, and the militia fired on the crowd, killing two and injuring 16. Put that way, it might seem humorous, but it was not humorous at the time. I am concerned with the principle behind it and I, for one, am pleased that in the last sixty-nine years we have travelled along this hard and dusty road to the point where we no longer fire upon people who feel the need to demonstrate from time to time. Coming back to the subject in hand, the Budget, everyone has been blinded with science this afternoon. We have had facts and figures from this and that and the other side. We have been inundated with figures, but nobody has mentioned those which really count-how much is drawn by old-age pensioners each week. I had hoped that the Tory Chancellor of the Exchequer would include something in his Budget to help the old people. A single old-age pensioner gets 57s. 6d. a week and a married couple get £4 12s. 6d. It might be said that they can also draw National Assistance, but some people are too proud to do so. They remember the old Public Assistance days when they were thrown out if they went into the offices too fast. But even with National Assistance, which only pays the rent, that is all they  have to live on. From time to time some people, journalists and philanthropists and others, for reasons known to themselves, sometimes for the publicity and sometimes as a matter of principle, have tried to live on the old-age pension. They have failed dismally. In this Budget the Chancellor has failed to improve the lot of old people. I am also concerned about the Budget's effect on the sweet trade. Pontefract is basically a mining area, but it contains a sweet trade which is world famous. In Featherstone, apart from the two pits—one was closed down in 1935—the only other industry, apart from a small clothing factory, is the ""pop"" trade. Both the sweets and ""pop"" trade are to ""catch it"". I agreed with my hon. Friend the Member for Cardiff, South-East (Mr. Callaghan), the Shadow Chancellor, when he said yesterday that the Budget was shovelling taxation downhill. I know a little about shovelling, for I have done plenty. This 15 per cent. Purchase Tax will restrict the home market. During my election campaign I visited many sweet factories and talked to the workpeople and to one manager. When I asked him what he was doing about the export market, he replied that his firm did some exporting but that it was not really worth while and that the firm continued it only to maintain contacts while it waited for better things. I tried to put down a Question yesterday asking what would be done to help sweet manufacturers to develop their export trade as the home market was to be restricted. For once in a while, on this issue I am partly in agreement with the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Nabarro). The other people who were not helped by the Budget are those receiving National Insurance benefits, the sick and others. Again, the rates are 57s. 6d. and £4 12s. 6d., at a time when people want building up and rehabilitating so that they can get back to work. If ever there was a policy of being penny wise and pound foolish it is this policy of paying only a small sum of money to people who are sick. The subject of the Schedule A tax has been so well ventilated that it has been almost exhausted, but I ought to make a passing comment to show that I am somewhat interested. Anyone who leaves   £600 in the York County Bank, the Post Office Savings Bank, or any other bank can draw up to £15 a year tax-free, but if he uses that £600 to buy a house with a notional value of £16 to £20, he has to pay tax on that notional value. It is better to keep the money in the bank. If he uses the £600 to buy a caravan, he pays no tax. I want to keep an open mind on this subject, because we may have to have a limit, but I think that within a limit Schedule A tax should have been abolished in the Budget. I bathe once a year and like most people who do I first put in my toe, then my foot, then my knee, and then submerge altogether. I had hoped that the Chancellor would take a running jump and get in straight away and abolish Schedule A tax altogether. I dare not repeat what I have heard the capital gains tax called, for if I did I should have to hand in my resignation. There is no doubt that it is a farce. The ""wide boys"" have an answer to it already—and not all the brains in the country are in this building today. This is an example of ""kidding"" the public. While it is possible to ""kid"" the public part of the time, they cannot be ""kidded"" all of the time, as we shall see at the next General Election. This is a dull, unimaginative, uninspiring and visionless Budget and apart from two things—the bounty to Service men and the relief to certain old people who have some money invested—it has failed the nation.
