gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a new Member I, as many others have done, claim the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my maiden speech. Before the General Election I was working at the coal face. I have been in the mines for over 30 years, not only dealing with many forms of production, but also trying to look after the interests of our people in the industry, both when the industry was under private enterprise and since the change over to nationalisation. Because of the advent of nationalisation there is now a new temper coming into the industry. Today, the individuality of our people is greatly recognised; the opinion of the miner is considered, by means of consultation, in the running of the industry; be is able to air his views on production. In the old days, if a miner endeavoured to air   his views on the subject of increased production, or on the running of the industry, he was immediately told by those in charge that he was there to produce the raw commodity, not to think. That was the temper of the industry under private enterprise. Today, the views of the miner are respected, and even acted upon; and that is how it ought to be. I was carried away when I heard the Minister's eloquent address on this subject; it gave one the impression that he had more or less lived with the subject from nationalisation. I have listened to the many questions that have been put to the Minister. The problem of dirty coal is no new problem to those in the industry. We have had it for a generation. This question has not only been considered by managements, agents, and consumers; we have been faced with it ever since coal mining was introduced in this country. As one engaged in the industry, I have encountered this question of dirt or foreign matter being brought to the surface and sold to the consumer with the coal, and I say, most sincerely, that the Minister ought not to be entirely saddled with the responsibility for answering questions on production, or on dirty coal. Nor do I think it ought to be left entirely to the National Coal Board. Much of this difficulty is attributable to the operations under private enterprise of bygone days, and to those who were responsible for running the industry then. Let me give the reason why I say that about private enterprise. One cannot live in an industry for over 30 years and know nothing about it. Under private enterprise, many of the best classes of coal seams, ranging up to 4 ft. 6 in. of clean coal, were extracted at the expense of other seams which ought to have been developed first. I have in mind a seam of coal in my county where the management have endeavoured to make advancements at five different points. The position is that hundreds of thousands of tons of coal will never be brought to the surface because of bad management under private enterprise. It means that those responsible for running the industry today cannot make the progress that is necessary. I am not claiming that there is no justification for the complaints about dirty coal, but that it is a problem which  has always been with us. It is no use Members opposite speaking about washery plants. I wish I could take hon. Members to my part of the country, where they would see coal being transported not only by rail but even by road to the washery plant for the extraction of debris. Until we are able to get the necessary plant, we shall not be able to remedy the situation. Much has been said about young people coming into the industry. Young people used to work on the screens and beds extracting the stone and dirt from the coal. Today, they are not coming into the industry because of the experience of their parents under private enterprise. Those who make these complaints about dirty coal should go to the pits and see the conditions under which our people are working. If they did that, I am sure they would not make these criticisms about the miners. I spent 18 years as a hand hewer and then went on the conveyor. We found that where people are working on single units of 100 yards or even on double units, they have little control over the coal content once the cycle of operation has been completed. I say that the blame cannot be laid on the miner at the coal face for lack of observation. When we remember that our people are having to work in seams ranging from 20 inches to two to three feet in depth, it will be realised that the conditions are not very good for the miner. We know that many changes have been made in the industry. We are very grateful for these changes, but there is still much to be done. The men in the industry have faced up to their responsibilities, and they will continue to do so so long as they are taken into the confidence of those responsible for the running of the industry. During the war, when the appeal went out for increased production, the miners gave of their best. Many of them would have liked to have gone into the Armed Forces, but they were inside the ring fence and could not get out. The same position applies today. The miners are trying to give of their best on behalf of the country.
