gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I will spend a few moments speaking of my predecessor, Mr. Charles Pannell, who represented this constituency for more than 20 years, and who was respected by hon. Members on both sides of the Chamber. He has a tremendous record of public service both in the House and outside. If during my period in the House I measure up in some respects to the wonderful record of Charles Pannell I shall be very pleased. I wish him a long and happy retirement, be it semi-retirement or otherwise. I have known hon. Members to continue in another Chamber. My constituency is a large one with an electorate of more than 60,000. It has most of the problems of modern urban areas, but it is not a tight city constituency. Four medium-sized units go to make up the 60,000 electorate. My constituency has a great deal of new housing, both council-owned and owner-occupied. It suffers from many of the blights of its industrial history. There are still a great number of back-to-back houses, some of which need demolition. There are also large areas of housing which need improvements in amenities   and environment if they are to be saved as homes fit for people to live in. During the election campaign one of the saddest things I found was the condition of some of the schools in the area. Two schools are almost a hundred years old. They have been removed from the building programme because of the Tory Government's economy measures late last year. They are in a deplorable condition, and I hope that the new Secretary of State for Education and Science will see fit to give them the priority in the building programme that they and schools of similar vintage so richly deserve. I listened with great interest to the Leader of the Opposition when he spoke in laudatory terms of the Housing Finance Act placed on the statute book while he was Prime Minister. As spokesman for the local authorities on housing, I had the onerous task of trying to fight that Act within the law. The Leader of the Opposition hinted that it put the burden where it could best be carried, because council house rents were increased. No such thing happened. One has to look back only a short time to see what actually happened. I was a member of the TUC and local authority deputation which met the then Secretary of State for the Environment, the right hon. and learned Member for Hexham (Mr. Rippon). We produced figures showing that in 18 months 60 per cent. of council house tenants had had a 40 per cent. increase in their gross rent inflicted on them by rent and rate increases. That was in a period when the wage earner was in a straitjacket, with no wage rise of any significance coming through. The figures which we produced were not denied. They were accepted in silence, the Act carried on, and we all know the subsequent effects. I am pleased that the Gracious Speech tells us that the Act is to be repealed. Rents have already been frozen, and it is a good job that they have. If the rent levels set by the rent tribunals are any indication, the further operation of the Act would have been disastrous for working-class people living in council houses. I hope that the repeal of the Act will be approached in a constructive sense, and that something will be put on the statute book which will allow local autho-  rities to go in for the massive building programmes which are sadly needed. It has been proved beyond any doubt that, if people are to be adequately housed, the only agency which can do it is the local authority. On that basis, we must make adequate financial and material resources available. I am glad to see, on a related matter, that there will be the outlawing of the lump. I hope that other measures of a Socialist nature will be introduced, giving local authorities power to deal with the situation. If we are to divert building forces in adequate strength to the municipal building programme and to house building generally, some form of licensing will be necessary. It has been proved beyond doubt that one cannot build houses at the same time as there is overbuilding of blocks of luxury offices and flats. I hope to see some form of licensing which will give local authorities the necessary resources. I turn now to the energy crisis. I welcome the indication in the Gracious Speech that the Labour Government will be in control of the development of the new-found oilfields, in both the North Sea and the Irish Sea. I thought it was rather odd that, according to a certain election manifesto launched some three or four weeks ago, we were going to place our trust almost in toto in the multinational oil companies. Some of us know what they were up to in this present crisis, keeping millions of tons of oil at sea so that they would make a killing when the price went up. This matter has been raised not only here but in Washington and Rome, and it has not been denied. I am glad to see the end of the miners' strike because, as a Socialist, I would put more faith in a British miner than in a multi-national oil millionaire, and I am glad that this is catered for in the Queen's Speech. Let us turn now to the question, also raised in the Gracious Speech, of public transport. I welcome the indication that more funds are to be made available for its improvement and that it will be given priority. As one who has spent most of his life in a large city, I have been completely horrified to see the scarring of some of our city centres by these huge monolithic concrete things which are termed roadways. If one looks at Birmingham as it is now, one sees a city   almost destroyed by worshipping the god of the motorway. I welcome the indications in the Gracious Speech that more money will be found for public transport and to get this matter under control. I turn now to the Industrial Relations Act. Of course, one can only look back and say that here again history has repeated itself, because in any democratic country today where Governments have sought to legislate for any period whatsoever on working conditions and wages, it has not lasted very long. Not so long ago there was a similar situation in Australia, when the then Australian Government had to ask the country's trade unionists to rescue them from their own Act. Legislation on working conditions and wages will never work in a democracy. It must be done on a voluntary basis. I am very pleased that it is indicated in the Gracious Speech that this will be one of the priorities. Last but not least, I should like to deal with the question of pensions. It is about time we tried to make this a non-political issue. So far as I am concerned, £10 and f16 sound very good. It is a tremendous step forward. But I hope that it will merely be the foundation stone for a system of pensions whereby people who have worked all their lives for the benefit of the community will be able to retire in dignity in old age, and will not have to claim this, that and the other fringe benefit. The basic rate should be more than adequate. I am pleased that this will be a top priority in the Government's legislative programme. I welcome as a whole the progressive measures contained in the Gracious Speech, and I await with interest the implementation of the necessary legislation. I am sure that the programme that has been placed before us has a great deal of social justice in it and will carry the electorate of this country with it when the time comes for a reckoning.
