gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to support the Amendment. The whole crux of the Bill is whether the President of the Board of Trade should have direct or permissive powers. We have been told during the last four months that it is the Government's intention to cure unemployment in particular areas. They must have had that thought in mind, because even after the election I well remember the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne, North (Mr. R. W. Elliott) saying that the Government would take powers under the new Bill to direct industry to areas suffering from unemployment more than twice the national average. I think that my hon. Friends from the North will know to which broadcast I am referring. If the Government intend to solve the unemployment problem in areas of high unemployment, why is not the substance of the Amendment in the Bill? Or does the Minister propose to revert to what happened before the war? I remember the President of the Board of Trade, in 1936, telling the people I lived among in Jarrow to work out their   own salvation. Are we to have something of a similar nature recurring under the Bill? 5.0 p.m. We have an unemployment figure of 4·2 per cent. in my area. Will the President of the Board of Trade order industrialists to transfer their factories to Whitehaven and Cleaton Moor, where we have about 1,000 men and women out of work? If the President of the Board of Trade says to an industrialist, ""You will go to Whitehaven"" and he replies, ""I am sorry, but it is too far away"", what authority will the Board of Trade have for ensuring that its orders are carried out? Will the Government alter the Clause? It is vitally necessary that that should be done. Will the Government leave it as something that is permissible? Will they leave 1,000 men and women in my division to suffer heartbreak because they happen to be in the north-west of England? Will they leave them to the soul-searing indignity of signing on at the employment exchange? Many of my hon. Friends have signed on at an employment exchange and know what it means? The only experience that hon. Members opposite have had of signing on at an employment exchange is when they have signed on in a totally different direction. By allowing this power to be permissive do the Government intend to allow 11 per cent. of our disabled men and women in my constituency to continue to sign on at the employment exchange? Would it not be better to accede to the Amendment and give direct power of direction to the President of the Board of Trade to ease the situation in the Whitehaven division so that we can bring fresh hope to those people and give them a decent standard of comfort? By doing that they could make more true the phrase that I hear used so often, ""You have never had it so good.""
