gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In one way or another I have watched and loved this great House for some 29 years, ever since my father brought me here as a small boy of 10; and one of the qualities of this House which I have liked most is its immense patience—the patience with which it submits to lectures on procedure by comparatively inexperienced Members like the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Hogg) and, above all, the patience with which it listens to the wholly inexperienced Members who, like myself, ask the indulgence of the House for their maiden speeches. There have been signs in this House of Commons that that particular patience is coming near breaking point and I shall try, by sitting down very soon after a quarter-past five, to avoid being the last straw. I welcome this Budget. I welcome it in detail and, above all, I welcome it for the principle which lies behind it, the principle—which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the Scottish Universities (Sir J. Anderson) sought to undermine—of removing that inequality which we on this side of the House consider to have been our country's social and economic curse. I welcome the first steps that the Chancellor has taken towards removing that inequality, those steps being the increased Income Tax allowances. I am glad he has done that. I hope he will do more. I know the indignation that people living near the subsistence line have felt when they have had to pay Income Tax on their very small earnings. I myself for 13 months, whilst serving as an ordinary seaman, was paid   each week the sum of 21s. in cash and you can imagine, Mr. Beaumont, the indignation that I felt on coming in from long weeks at sea to receive a demand for tax upon that miserable pittance. I do not have to mention to the seamen in this House what I did with that demand. One thing I specially welcome about this concession of allowances is the indication it gives of the Chancellor's mind that the sum of £2 7s. is the bare minimum for subsistence for a single person, and that £3 10s. is the bare minimum for a married couple. I beg him to bear his own figures in mind when it comes to the consideration of what really is an adequate old age pension. Now the Chancellor has begun in direct ways to help the poorer paid people of our country, but there are many indirect ways as well in which he could help. I only want to press one or two upon him at the moment—he will receive pressure from many quarters and on many aspects. The first is about the Purchase Tax. I would ask him to consider removing altogether the Purchase Tax from public playground equipment, for this reason. Hon. Members know—particularly those of them who are fathers—that individual private toys at the present time are not merely shoddy in material but exorbitant in price. They are an example of how the less reputable advocates of private enterprise, if left uncontrolled, will form nasty, mean, petty rackets. Because of that, the only way in which so many of the poorer children can get any mechanical enjoyment is upon the swings and the slides we used to see in our public parks. I have been told that there is plenty of this equipment available—there is no question of diverting supplies to manufacturers—and the only thing which is preventing public authorities from buying it is the exorbitant price, and that is due to the Purchase Tax. I would ask the Financial Secretary to consider this matter to see whether or not it is possible to remove that tax. A second point in which, indirectly, the Chancellor can greatly help the happiness and well-being of the poorer section of the nation, is on the point raised by the hon. Member for Harwich (Sir J. Stanley Holmes)—the reclassification of sports into live entertainment. I happen to be particularly concerned for my own pleasure with the sport of Association football, and I know that as a result of the  war, very large numbers of these ""soccer"" clubs are in a shocking way. They have had their grounds blitzed, they have had very poor gates, and they have lost money. Some of them have been closed down. I was told the other day by the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. M. Foot) that the board room of Plymouth Argyle could now pretty well be classified as a special area. I think if the right hon. Gentleman could make this reclassification of games, into the section of live sport for the purposes of the Entertainments Duty, it would be possible for these clubs to build up reserves. They are not like industrial firms, who have been building up reserves in the war. They have not been able to do that. Let them, therefore, build up their reserves against the day when it will be possible to provide labour and material for the rebuilding of their grounds. Because, remember, the game of soccer is the weekly delight of hundreds of thousands of ordinary people, and among ordinary people I include the Foreign Secretary, the First Lord of the Admiralty, the hon. Member for Devonport and myself. I would beg him, therefore, to consider this change in the tax. I cannot expect the Chancellor to give wholesale concessions to right and left—what he gives to one group with one hand he has made perfectly clear he will take away from another group with the other hand. I was a little surprised that he did not make the task of giving further concessions a little easier. I was a little surprised that he did not consider putting some further limitation on inheritances. I first heard the name of Rignano from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was at one time a very great advocate of the Rignano plan, and I hope that in subsequent Budgets at any rate, we shall find a still further drastic scaling-up in the limitation upon inheritances. I cannot expect hon. Members opposite to approve of that, for it is curious that they who, in their public speeches, demand that people shall stand upon their own feet, that they shall not be spoon-fed, seem to be the very first people who demand that their children shall be silver-spoon fed. Now, I do not think that by putting up Death Duties you can get all that the Chancellor will require. I further think that it will be impossible for him, under the present system, to get more by direct taxation. I believe that the limit of   direct taxation in a system of private enterprise has not only been reached, but has been passed. It has been proved conclusively that getting a reasonable living and serving the public is not sufficient incentive for private owners of the means of production. They seem to need something else, and we can only give them that something else by a reduction in taxation. By that means we can get the increased production which we must have. But if we are to suffer a reduction in direct taxation we shall have to cut something, probably the social services. Except for a few museum pieces, there are not many hon. Members even among those opposite who are prepared to advocate cuts in the social services. So there is the dilemma. The only way private enterprise can be get to work is by a cut in direct taxation, and that cannot be done without cutting the social services. What can we do? I suggest that what we as a Labour Government can do is to do what we were sent here to do—get away as quickly as we can from the old ideas of private individual enterprise to those of public enterprise, where profit is no longer the motive and where a reasonable standard of living for oneself, combined with a desire for public service, is the main incentive. I know well enough that most hon. Members opposite will not approve of that, and I do not expect them to because they do not believe in it. But we on this side believe in it with all our hearts. With the great majority that we have here I believe that we should listen courteously and earnestly to the individual views of Members opposite on matters of detail. I do that myself, and I learn a great deal. But when it comes to questions of fundamental political and economic philosophy, for their philosophy I do not care a rap. That philosophy does not matter any more, at least for the next four years, and I ask our Front Bench to ignore it entirely. I ask them to turn this way and to realise that if they go forward on the road towards Socialist public enterprise they will receive the united, vigorous and selfless support of the Members on the benches behind them.
