gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I apologise for having to inflict yet another maiden speech on the House today, because I realise that even in such things as maidens there can be a surfeit. Let me refer briefly to the speech of the right hon. Member for Poplar (Mr. Key), who has just spoken. The houses which he has been so loudly condemning in the last few moments are surely, as his right hon. Friend the Member for Bishop Auckland (Mr. Dalton) himself stated in the debate today, the very ones that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bishop Auckland put forward when he was at the Ministry. Moreover, they are the very houses of which the plans and models are to be seen in Westminster Hall. I hope that the right hon. Member for Poplar has been to see them. They are the very ones sponsored by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bishop Auckland in the period when he was at the Ministry, and the policy which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Poplar has enunciated, is, I say, quite false. I apologise. I know that on such an occasion as this—a maiden speech—I ought to be non-controversial. But the right hon. Gentleman aroused my blood a little. Having dealt with that matter as non-controversially as I could, let me continue by referring to the policy enunciated by the Minister last week. I give a very warm welcome to that policy, which is showing some signs of realism at last in the tackling of the housing problem. There is, I believe, a very real value to the individual and to the community in this policy of promoting greater private house ownership. It is, I think, probably one of the most important steps that has been put forward by the Minister at this time, and I believe that its benefits can be very far-reaching indeed. With regard to the building of new houses by private individuals, however, I do suggest that there is possibly a little caution to be exercised, in that there is a possibility that some builders may be drawn off from council house building for the building of this type of house. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I  thank hon. Members opposite for their support. It will enable me to continue the point I was going to make. What I should like my right hon. Friend to do in this case is to encourage, as, I believe, he intends to do, the small builder to build those houses—the man not in a position to contract for council houses on a large scale. That is the type of man who should be building those private houses. I say that if a man who is in a position to build large quantities of houses wants also to build private houses, he should be asked, if he wants to build more than, say, two private houses for private selling in one allocation, to build a corresponding number of council houses. I ask my right hon. Friend very seriously to consider that point, because I think that that would provide a safeguard. I am a little worried by a passage in the appendix to Circular 73 dealing with that particular case. I hope that my right hon. Friend will do something in this way. I think that it will be welcomed in the building trade generally, particularly among builders building council houses. I say that the bulk of these private houses should be built by the smaller man who has not the facilities for building on a large scale. The question of the smaller size has been dealt with, and I would preface my remarks on this problem by a mention of it. I think that if this is looked at realistically there is real value to everyone concerned if the use of the smaller size is accepted and pursued to the utmost extent possible, because it is surely a folly that we should at this time, when there are such tremendously long waiting lists, to insist on over-lavish standards of building. I say ""over-lavish"" not by reference to the needs of the community but by contrast with the enormity of the problem that confronts us. It is surely elementary that we should cut our coat according to our cloth in this as in so many other things. That is what the Minister is seeking to do. If we can reduce slightly the size of the house but yet have an adequate house, and by so doing can build 10 houses where we built only nine before, then I say that this Government will have done something very worth while. A word on the allocation of licences. I do hope that there will be a greater facility in the allocation of additional   licences to local authorities who really intend and want to go ahead in overcoming this problem, so that they shall not be held back in the granting of additional licences, particularly to private builders. They may be deterred by a feeling that they are not going to get sufficient licences to cover additional requirements. I would rather take a risk, and issue more licences than they are likely to be able to deal with, than limit building that is possible. There is a man in my constituency who has already got a plot of land, who has purchased the materials—non-traditional materials—for building his house. He has the plot and the materials. All he wants is a licence; he wants to build the house himself. For 12 months he has been in that position. I say that it is wrong that the withholding of licences should prevent people like that from going ahead. I would ask my right hon. Friend to give further consideration to the question of the number of houses per acre that are to be put up on new housing estates. This is a matter which, I do seriously suggest to him, has got somewhat out of hand. In the years just prior to the war the average number of houses per acre being put up was, I think, in the region of from 12 to 14. On housing estates I have visited recently I have been told that the average number is in some cases less than six. At a time when there is a real shortage of land, quite apart from the value of the land for agriculture—I would not seek to develop that point now: I am sure, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, you would not allow me to do so—there is a folly in absorbing land to too great an extent in this way, and so making it more difficult to find land for houses. I do not think that the majority of the tenants really desire the size and extent of gardens given to them in many cases. I know of cases—I have seen them quite near to where I live—where, obviously, the gardens are not wanted. I am thinking of one particular case where there are eight houses that have been occupied now for something like 18 months. There are two of the gardens that have not yet been dug. The tenants do not want them. They are an unnecessary burden, and I say that it would be a very good thing if this whole question were looked into again. Another question that is very important here is that of the increased road and drainage costs which accrue from spreading the houses too widely. I have been told that it amounts to as much as an extra £100 per house if the houses are so spread and so sited, and have a large frontage—an over large frontage—on to the road. A great deal more attention should be given to this. I should say that a reasonable density at the present time is 10 houses to the acre. That would certainly not be unreasonable, and with that density we could get a substantial saving, quite apart from the question of the burden of too large gardens in many cases; and incidentally, these savings would be reflected in lower rents. I should like very briefly to draw attention to the conditions respecting many country cottages—existing country cottages. There are conditions existing there that are not realised by many hon. Members, I believe. Conditions in many country cottages today are appalling. They are slum conditions, although there are not the worst conditions of town slums because, there is not proximity; but, nevertheless, there are conditions in which many of our workers are being asked to live that are far worse than they should be. The right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan)—I wish he were here now—talked about rich ""spivs"" getting houses, as against farm workers and miners. I am a farmer, and I work among my farm workers, and I know the conditions in which they live, and I also know for a fact that during the period when the right hon. Gentleman was responsible for housing at the Ministry of Health the actions that he took prevented many rural houses and cottages from being reconditioned and improved. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Subsidies.""] Yes, he took away the subsidies—exactly. I really am sorry for being so controversial. I had no intention of being so. I realise I am overstepping the mark in this way, and I apologise. What I do want to emphasise, however, is that all possible forces for building new houses should be concentrated. Let us avoid dissipation of the building force in unnecessary repair work. We have got to get the workers back, we have got to entice them back, and concentrate on building. We have had a lot said—and I feel strongly about this—on the question of the overcrowding in which many   people are living. I do not want to take up too much time of the House, but I came up against this problem very much during the Election campaign. I was appalled with the conditions in which many of our poor people have to live. They deserve better of their country than that. I fervently hope that the measures now being taken will produce the results we all desire. For that reason I deplore the action by hon. Members opposite in seeking to bring the local authorities, as it were, up in arms against the policy we are now pursuing. We must work together on this, and I most strongly deplore the efforts of hon. Members opposite to incense some of the local authorities against the proposals now being made. Let us give them a fair trial. With effective control from above, and with the co-operation of all the local authorities and the whole nation, I am convinced that this national problem can be overcome for the betterment not only of the living conditions but of the moral and spiritual welfare of the whole of our people.
