gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise for the first time in this House with considerable and natural diffidence, but realising that after all one must make one's first bow in this Assembly. I represent the Gillingham division of Rochester and my constituency has, I imagine, more thousands of men who have travelled round the world than most constituencies— men in the Navy, the Army and the Royal dockyards, men who know a little about the difficulties of people living together in various countries. I think therefore it is worth while for one who represents them to have his say in this Debate. During the last election, I made no sweeping boasts or promises with regard to what this Government could do in foreign affairs. I said, simply, that I felt we could do at least as well as the Government which was in being previously. I said that because my first acquaintance with this subject was while still in khaki after the last war, when I listened to Woodrow Wilson, who was then admired above all others, when he came over to this country. From that time onwards, in humble ways, hundreds and thousands of us have tried to help forward the building of a League of Nations. From that time onwards, these people gave whatever they had to the cause of peace. During those years, those of us who were concerned with the relatively humdrum, day to day organisation of these affairs, learnt that we had to exercise considerable discrimination and judgment upon the information which reaches us from the various quarters of the globe, and that we should never accept implicitly what is said by representatives of some foreign country. We also found that it was unwise to go abroad to a foreign land and come back a hundred per cent. patriot for that country. One has to assess what is in the minds of people and meet them at the conference table where they are representing various interests, and determine what they think and mean not by their words alone but by their character and general intentions. I myself am confident that the Foreign Secretary, and all those other gentlemen concerned with our foreign affairs, in reaching their assessment, have had far greater opportunities than we ordinary  Members of getting somewhere nearer the truth. I went through all these years of fluctuating foreign affairs and I stood by the Party that I represent in this House because I thought that their policy was right. When I entered this House there was only one point upon which I was in great conflict with His Majesty's Government, and that was the policy we were pursuing in Greece. I had occasion, many months before, frequently to meet representatives of foreign Powers, or rather the resistance movements of foreign countries, who had come over here, and the Greeks did certainly influence my mind with their honesty and sincerity. I arrived at the conclusion that by taking action as His Majesty's Government had done in Greece, we did in fact line up the whole of our power on the side of the extreme Right; and although I was fully aware of the fact that the E.A.M. had a strong Communist influence, I believed at that time that fully 90 percent. of the E.A.M. were constitutionally minded people determined to put their country on a constitutional basis. I was, therefore, very glad when the Foreign Secretary was able to tell us that at last he had reorientated his policy and that the Greeks would be enabled to express themselves freely. I have spoken to many Greeks and others from Balkan countries, and I have never had one tell me that they had lived in a true democracy. None of these countries have ever had a true democracy in the sense that we have had it here. It is futile to expect that by a stroke of the pen true democracy will result from anything we do in the next few months, but we must preserve the rights of humanity and the individual against any sort of organisation which would take away from the ordinary people their right of expression. I have been engaged for many years in engineering science, and, therefore, have been interested in the atomic bomb. I was glad that the scientists were taking some action in regard to the work which they had done, since it had brought us into this plight. I took the view that the scientist, although he may express his opinion with regard to foreign affairs or with regard to the use of his product equally with anyone else, was no more entitled than anyone else to express his views on the foreign policy that should   result from his invention. I do not think that the discovery of this new method of destruction has really changed anything fundamentally. It has only multiplied enormously the difficulties that already exist. The fundamental argument is that we cannot possibly have a proper world security without world order; and one great power must somehow get to work with two other great powers of this world, to enable us to get down to the basis of real world order. I was pleased to hear the speech made yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden), because he has been much admired by many of us, irrespective of party, during the years between the two wars. I was pleased and delighted to hear a leading Member of the party opposite take the stand he did on the necessity of securing international government. I feel that with the response we have had in the speech of the Foreign Secretary today, what we have to do now is somehow or other, through this assembly, to make a call to Russia to come into this business, and stay with us in it, once and for all. I do not feel that we must go begging to any other Power. I feel that this Government would not have the views which they have on this matter unless they had been rebuffed, time and time again. From this clear fact, and both sides in this House having declared themselves firmly for an establishment of a world order, I feel that we can take some action now to carry this matter further forward immediately.
