gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of hon. Members in my first speech in the House, although the subject on which I want to say a few words, housing, is usually very controversial. I am deeply concerned, as I think most of us are, particularly if we have served on local authorities, about slum clearance. I noted the reference in the Gracious Speech to slum clearance and I urge the Government, when they introduce their legislation, to bear in mind the real problems of local authorities who are engaged in slum clearance work. The Prime Minister said last Thursday that local authorities are preparing slum clearance programmes to be submitted to the Ministry, but unless something is done by the Ministry to ease the problems of local authorities, particularly financial, such plans will remain but a dream. The subsidy arrangements under the 1954 Act dealing with deferred demolition are the worst that have ever been made by a Ministry with a local authority. Since 1919, the theoretical basis of subsidy between Government and local authority has been a relationship of three to one. Before the war it was never lower than two to one. Under the 1954 Act, the basis is that the Government are prepared to pay only 50 per cent. of the interest on the loans on the purchase price of houses under deferred demolition, and the local authority has to meet the other 50 per cent. While it is true that the Exchequer is prepared to pay £3 per house per annum, it will do so for only 15 years, whereas the loan period is 60 years. During this time the local authority have to continue to make payments. If we are serious in tackling slum clearance there must be more generous provision to local authority finance. It follows logically that the local authorities who have the biggest slum clearance problem are those who have the biggest housing responsibilities and the  biggest financial commitments on housing. Where there is a need for slum clearance there is invariably a surplus of population to be housed. Again, the authorities concerned with slum clearance are those who have little or no vacant land on which to house the surplus population cleared by slum clearance. There is a reference in the Gracious Speech to an inquiry into tribunals, including land, which could offer scope to local authorities. I am afraid that it will not offer much scope unless arrangements are made for some form of appeal by local authorities to an independent authority when the Minister has refused to sanction a compulsory purchase order. When a compulsory purchase order is made, and if the Ministry orders that it should not be proceeded with, there is no appeal by the local authority. There is no means of finding out why that C.P.O. has been turned down. It should be possible, as the result of the proposed inquiry, to cover both those points; it is necessary to give the local authority concerned with housing an opportunity of acquiring land, either compulsorily or otherwise. The land problem is the very root of housing and slum clearance. One other point I wish to raise is of very great importance to my constituency, Wood Green. We have a large shopping area. We had recently an application made to us by the owner of one of these large shops to extend the premises at the rear. This extension would involve the demolition of five houses. The local authority considered the matter, and, remembering the Minister's circular dealing with housing accommodation, it decided that it could not allow that application because of the acute housing need in the borough. Although Wood Green is only a small borough it has a waiting list of 1,545, 60 per cent. of which are urgent cases. In addition, we have to release 210 requisitioned units, we have 166 prefabricated houses which are on public open space and which have to be removed, and alternative accommodation found for the families in them. When the present building programme is finished there will be only 100 dwellings still to be erected in the borough of Wood Green, which means that, apart from redevelopment, there is no possibility of any further accommodation being available. In these circumstances, the local authority decided that it could not grant this application for the demolition of the five houses. The case went before the local planning committee of the county council, and it granted planning permission. Subsequently, the local authority appealed to the Minister. The Minister's decision has now been received. The Minister has ruled—and here I quote—that Demolition does not constitute development.…Where no dwelling exists the question of a change of its use cannot arise. Therefore, there is no need for the shop concerned to make application to demolish these five houses. These five houses are vacant today. Families have been moved out. There is nothing whatever, on the Minister's ruling, to stop five perfectly sound houses being demolished, yet we are spending public money on ""Operation Rescue"" to bolster up semi-derelict property. That is not the end of the story. We have already heard of another shop the owners of which are proposing to do the same thing. Word of the Minister's ruling has evidently got round to them because they have not applied for planning permission. We heard of their intention only because one of the houses which they proposed to demolish is requisitioned property and they have applied for it to be released. We also heard about it from the tenants of one of the other houses who told us, in great distress, that they had been told to find alternative accommodation as it was proposed to demolish their house to make way for shop extension. In this small area there are 50 houses that could be demolished in this way without reference to the local authority or to anyone else at all. What is true of my constituency must be true of others elsewhere, and once this ruling becomes known it will be quite simple for anyone wanting to change the use of premises merely to demolish them, instead of applying for planning permission, which may be refused. They can then do anything they like subject, of course, to whatever local and other provisions there may be. I appeal most earnestly to the Minister to reconsider this decision before it comes to the point where we have the wholesale demolition of sound houses at a time when the country's housing need is so acute that we are bending every effort to  try to preserve every possible house. I appeal particularly on behalf of my own constituency, while bearing in mind that this is a problem which affects the whole country.
