gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I shall speak on clause 20 in a moment, but I should like first to go a little wider. It is traditional in a maiden speech to praise one's predecessor, and I have listened with interest as my fellow new Members have praised—or even damned with faint praise— their predecessors, but no hon. Member who sat in the last Parliament would not join me in my admiration for the previous hon. Member for Newbury. Sir Michael McNair-Wilson had the unenviable distinction of being the first Member of this House to suffer kidney failure, undergo dialysis and, eventually, have a kidney transplant. Hon. Members will recognise how well he continued to perform his parliamentary duties, with enormous courage. I know from many examples how diligently he continued to serve his constituency, and many kidney patients know how well he turned his experiences of illness to bring them benefits and much better facilities. I know that Sir Michael would agree with me that he could not have done that without the support of his wife, so I am sure that all hon. Members will join me in wishing him continued improved health, and them both a long and happy retirement. The Newbury constituency takes its name from the largest town within it. It is a large constituency which stretches across the whole of west Berkshire—a beautiful area with many diverse activities. One of its most important industries is racing. Indeed, the highlight of the   election campaign and of ""party politics"" there was unrelated to any candidate—when the horse of that name romped home in the Grand National to the extreme benefit of many of my betting constituents. The racing industry is important. It employs enormous numbers of people not only in the stables but on the courses and in the betting shops. I welcome the announcement in the Budget that betting duty is to be cut so that £15 million can be redirected to helping this important industry. Nevertheless, the industry continues to face a substantial problem in that the value added tax at 17.5 per cent. levied on the sale of racehorses here is much higher than in France or Ireland and there may well be a real danger of auctioneers, breeders and perhaps even trainers going overseas. In the past, one of the arguments that the Government have deployed against tax harmonisation was that it removed their ability to reduce taxes in a competitive situation. This is exactly such a case. I hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will consider how to restore our competitiveness in this area. Another important industry is the defence industry. The very names Aldermaston and Greenham common are synonymous with the protests of the past. Few now doubt that the protesters were wrong, that it was a strong defence policy which continued to bring the former Soviet Union back to the negotiating table, and that it was the siting of cruise missiles at. Greenham common which eventually led to the intermediate nuclear forces treaty and the abolition of a whole class of nuclear weapons. Now, the people of Newbury hope that it will not be long before Green ham common is common land once again and open to them all. Perhaps what the Newbury constituency most exemplifies is the economic development of the 1980s. It stretches along the M4—the golden corridor—and has many young high-tech companies competitive with the best in the world. Many started as small businesses, with their founders putting capital and security at risk, and many have suffered hard in the current recession. It is important that the Government should do all that they can to restore confidence there and to help those companies begin to expand again. I know that we have the lowest corporation tax in Europe, but other countries are bringing their rates down and we should stay ahead. As the hon. Member for Islington, South and Finsbury (Mr. Smith) said, it is to be hoped that we shall repeat that process and look to reduce company taxation in the same way as we have committed ourselves to reducing personal income tax. The amount of corporation tax is a function of the profitability of a company, and estimates of future profitability affect companies' capital values. Businesses and farmers in my constituency welcome the proposed increase in inheritance tax relief on business assets to 100 per cent. Too often in the past firms have been damaged or even broken up in order to find liquid funds to pay the tax following an unexpected death—and death seldom comes at a convenient time for companies. That problem will now no longer occur. That welcome change, however, could lead to an unwelcome consequence. Currently, if such assets are handed over during the donor's lifetime, capital gains tax is rolled over but not eliminated. The Finance Bill proposal may lead owners to hang on to their possessions until death to avoid capital gains tax on the increase in value of the assets, rather than handing them over at the best time for the development of that company. And who  can blame them? The vast majority of capital gains tax is paid each year by a relatively small number of people selling out of firms that they have built up at considerable risk and sacrifice to themselves. They resent paying the Government nearly half the increase in the value of their companies. In the past few years, we have seen the risks to which such companies expose themselves. Those small companies, which are started up with very little capital, are the life blood of the economy. I hope that the Chancellor will reconsider the impact of this complex and distorting tax in terms of discouraging risk-taking in this country. Previous Conservative Chancellors have been proud to abolish a tax each year. The present Chancellor has continued that admirable tradition with the proposed abolition of the matches and mechanical lighters duty in this year's Finance Bill, but there are many other, more important taxes that I could suggest as candidates for abolition. I hope that the Government will continue to be both a tax-reforming Government and a tax-cutting Government.
