gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is: with the greatest humility that I address the House on this important subject of defence. I am encouraged by the fact that I represent the historic division of Harwich, off the shores of which Canute drove back the Danes many years ago. Also, in modern times, from that division many people from its hinterland, its harbours and shores have gone forth to defend our sea lanes, and there may be hon. Members here, as I know there are others, who have sallied forth from Harwich harbour to add their gallant and distinguished exploits to the annals of our history. Also I recall that a year ago the constituents of my division and others in Eastern England were fighting a different battle of defence, namely, sea defence. I am glad to tell the House of the magnificent spirit of courage, cheerfulness and   fortitude which they displayed at that time. However, I do not think it would be right for us to take for granted our national morale, and it is on this point that I wish first to address the House. Napoleon has said that morale is as important to material as three is to one. At the present moment I feel we are inclined to base our way of life too much on material things and not enough on ideals. When I hear about recruitment being slack, I feel that it may be because of this material concept of life which is being substituted for our past ideals of individual freedom and family life. It is important to realise that these are part of the structure of our national unity and that we must build on them. From that it follows that, in building an international structure, we must pay due regard to the interests and traditions of each nation and in this way prevent our international armies from becoming a veritable Tower of Babel. I welcome the fact that the House has agreed to a German contribution towards E.D.C., and I want to draw attention to the magnificent work of the French in defending our free world through the gallant fight they are putting up in Indo-China. I am especially interested in this part of the world because, before the war, I was seconded as a language officer to the British Embassy in Tokyo. It fell to my lot to keep the Japanese order of battle when they entered the war. During and after that time I realised the enormous strategic importance of Indo-China to the defence structure of the Western world. That is a point of which we should not lose sight. I should like to see the defensive structure going through Indo-China, through the Philippines and through the Pacific Islands to Pearl Harbour. We face in the East, more than in the West, a great danger which many people may underestimate, and it is important for us to seek all the allies we can. I may be treading on very difficult ground, but when I listened to the arguments during the foreign affairs debate about bringing Germany into the European Defence Community, I thought of the time I spent in Japan as a language officer. I recalled the fact that when we were faced with a similar strategic danger in the Far East in 1902, and when Russia threatened, as she does indeed today in the East, we  thought it fit to make an Anglo-Japanese Alliance. This part of the world which I know is rather an American sphere of influence, but having regard to the old Alliance and to the characteristics of the Japanese—that they are an insular people, an island race, a seafaring race, and that many of their traditions are similar to ours—I think we can play our part in helping them to overcome the very great problems which face them in that part of the world. Knowing the Japanese and how they feel about these matters, I believe that they will not preserve their neutrality. They will either come in with us in the West or they will go to China, for it is vitally important for us to realise, from the point of view of trade, that China and Japan are economically interdependent. If we pay due attention to the strategic factors, I hope we may find that we have a most important ally and friend who can help us. We must understand these problems constructively. They are difficult problems, but when we talk about our desire for peace we must explore every avenue. It is along this particular avenue that I make this special plea this afternoon. My conception of a defensive structure through the Southern Pacific, through Indo-China to the Pacific Islands and through the Philippines to Pearl Harbour, is based, as in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, on an Anglo-American Alliance. I believe that the structure of all our defence effort today must be based on the Anglo-American Alliance, and that can only rest secure if we remain strong and live up to our responsibilities, and also if we remain independent and enterprising and are not afraid to take the initiative.
