gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is an alarming experience to have to make a maiden speech, but I am happy and slightly reassured to follow the speech of the hon. Member for Coventry, East (Mr. Crossman). While at Oxford, I heard him make the same speech on very many subjects at least four times, and every time that he spoke in the Union most speakers in the weeks afterwards used the same mannerisms and almost the same arguments. It is rather like old times to follow the hon. Member's speech. I think the most reasonable estimation of this White Paper is to try to relate it with the problems which at present face N.A.T.O. For the rest of its nine years, N.A.T.O. will be faced with three specific threats from the Soviet Union—first, the extra-European threat; secondly, it will have the function of trying to prevent and, if necessary, to wage a limited war; and, thirdly, there is the function of N.A.T.O. to maintain and to hold a nuclear strategic balance of power. Briefly, I should like to analyse these three functions and to relate them to this White Paper. The extra-European threat is one where either Russia or China may exploit situations for which perhaps they may not be, in the first place, immediately responsible—to do it second-hand—situations such as those which occurred at Laos and Algeria and that which is likely to arise in Iraq. This extra-European problem is not solely a military one. It is probably at root an economic problem which demands of the Government a liberal view and the investment of a large part of our surpluses in aid to under-developed countries. This does not mean that military force has no part to play in this instance. A brigade or a small group of seasoned troops which could be landed within thirty-six hours of a request and followed up at short notice by a sea-borne invasion would be worth sixty brigade groups a month later. It is important to N.A.T.O. that high priority should be given to a mobile reserve, responsibility for which must rest with those nations inside N.A.T.O. who have far-flung responsibilities, such as the United States, France and ourselves. It would be in the interests of N.A.T.O. to spend more money on the United Nations Emergency Force. The second function of N.A.T.O. in the next nine years concerns the threat of limited war. At present, N.A.T.O. is in an extremely weak position as against the power of the Soviet Union. We are outnumbered on the land front between the North Sea and the Alps by seven divisions to one. The Russian Army, which, we must remember, is not an occupational army in East Germany but an operational force, is highly and superbly equipped with weapons which have been redesigned and manufactured since the war, while the equipment of 60 per cent. of our divisions in Europe is still of the Second World War standard. As for N.A.T.O., there has been an alteration, as we know, in the philosophy that lies behind the concept of the ""shield"". Whereas before the West was prepared to shelter behind the nuclear United States power and, therefore, to be happy with a thin skin of divisions across the centre of Europe which would act as an alarm bell, this   concept has now changed. It is now fashionable to suggest that we should have at least thirty divisions in Europe to hold the Russians if they made a conventional attack, and hold them long enough for the West to confer and for the Soviet Union perhaps to have serious second thoughts on the desirability of starting or of stopping the action they had already started. It is a great pity that the Government have removed from Europe that one division, and I would put high priority on increasing the seven brigade groups, or three divisions, that are in Europe at present, to the four divisions which were behind the spirit of the Western Union agreements. I think that N.A.T.O. should have a reserve in Europe, over and above the thirty divisions, that would be there in order to try to stop a Russian attempt to humiliate N.A.T.O., which might happen by the sudden seizure of places like Schleswig-Holstein and the Skagerrak and thus put before the West a fait accompli. The third important fact before N.A.T.O. is, of course, the nuclear equation. This is the function of the United States and its Strategic Air Command. How stale is this statemate we hear about? It is getting staler every day. This debate, both yesterday and today, is urgent and important, but in my opinion it is overshadowed by the debate going on in Washington at present between the Eisenhower administration arid the missile lobby, and for the Eisenhower administration to acknowledge that the Soviet Union have a three-year lead in missiles and at the same time still to speak of a stalemate seems to me illogical and a contradiction in terms. The Americans must face the problem of seeing that at least 30 per cent. of the 1,700 strategic planes of the Strategic Air Command, the B52s and the B47s, should be airborne night and day in the short-term in order that the nuclear submarines can then be brought into operation, and the solid fuel missiles that will follow. This argument seems to lead towards setting up a missile system of our own in Europe under the control of N.A.T.O. This would have at least one dramatic advantage. The more rockets we have at the moment and for the next year or two, even if they are soft-based, spread  across Europe, the chance of there being a knock-out attack is enormously lessened. The advantage at the moment is so much with the Power that determines the first strike or surprise attack that we must do everything to make certain that that tremendous advantage is militated against. The White Paper is facing up to most of the realities. It speaks of the need for flexibility and mobility. It announces the spending of more rather than of less money. It now lumps all our armed forces together as the deterrent—and not just our V-bombers. It is not yet prepared to reinforce the Army of the Rhine and, incidentally, our influence in Europe. It seems to hint at the end of Blue Streak, and I hope that that is the case. We should replace the V-bombers with a solid fuelled rocket and, when we get the nuclear submarine, fire it from the submarine. It will be four years before the nuclear submarine is ready as a concept of our own and eighteen months before we can get hold of a solid fuel rocket from America or make it ourselves. It might not be unreasonable, therefore, to suggest that instead of scrapping ""Vanguard"" we make it into a missile-carrying ship, in the same way as America has under construction a heavy cruiser which carries sixteen solid fuel missiles with a range of 1,500 miles. It is obvious that the missile-carrying—nuclear or conventional—submarine is the future weapon for the West. It would be unseen, wide-ranging and formidable. The Minister of Defence said yesterday that he had received a postcard from the United States which he quoted. If I may, I will quote it again. It said: Move deterrents out to sea Where the real estate is free And where they are far away from me. —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 29th February, 1960; Vol. 618, c. 859.] Copies of that postcard should be in the pocket of every one of us this afternoon.
