gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech on the Finance Bill, because the Bill clearly continues to identify the Government's social, economic and financial policies. Those policies were overwhelmingly rejected at the general election by the people of Withington. I should like to start by paying tribute to my predecessor in Withington, Fred Silvester, who represented the constituency for 13 years. Although we had obvious political differences, he served well those constituents who sought his advice and was always courteous to me when I appeared with him on a public platform. The night of 11 June was historic for Manchester. I am grateful for the fact that I can record that historic event so soon in this Parliament. It was historic for two main reasons. First, I am proud to have been elected as the first Labour Member of Parliament for Withington, turning a Tory majority of nearly 3,000 into a Labour majority of 3,500. Secondly, I am pleased to report that Manchester is now represented only by Labour Members, some of whom are here tonight. Manchester is now a bastion of Socialism and radicalism. The great city has always been famous for that, but it is now exemplified by its representation in this House. Many people contributed to that success in Withington on 11 June and I should like to   take this opportunity to thank them all for their help in the election, and to thank especially my voluntary agent, Mr. Tom Grimshaw, for his support. Manchester, Withington returned a Labour Member of Parliament because the people of Withington firmly rejected the social, economic and financial policies followed by the Tory Government during the past eight years and the policies that were put forward in their manifesto. Those policies divide the country between north and south, and rich and poor. The policies that are now put forward are geared to make the rich richer and to grind the poor into greater despair. The people of Withington voted instead for the policies that were clearly presented by the Labour party. Those policies were based on need and not greed, and were designed to give hope to our elderly people, our families, and above all our unemployed people. I shall discuss those policies briefly, because the policies on which the people of Withington voted are a reflection of the economic policies which have been put forward in the Bill and which they rejected totally. My constituents want a properly funded National Health Service, which will be financed by an expension of public expenditure. They are appalled at headline after headline that identifies the crisis in our hospitals and in south Manchester. Such headlines identify the growing waiting lists and the number of wards that have been closed, the closure of our accident and emergency department at Withington hospital at weekends, and the threats to the cancer services at the Christie hospital. Only last week, newspaper headlines suggested that the famous Pat Seed centre at the Christie hospital was under threat because of a lack of resources. Only yesterday I discovered that the waiting list for essential laser cancer treatment at Withington hospital is four months. The people of Withington voted for proper health care when it is needed, and which is free at the point at which it is needed. The people of Withington voted also for a properly funded comprehensive education service that is available for everyone at the point at which they want it. They did not vote for an education service that will clearly be based on selection and on the ability of parents to pay for essential books, equipment, music, sport or even school trips. My constituents voted for an expansion of public investment in our housing in Withington. They want proper central Government funding to ensure that our council houses can be repaired and modernised, and our private housing renovated. The right to a decent home is a cornerstone of civilised society. The hundreds of people in Manchester who are homeless cry out for that right. The people of Withington voted also for a decent level of pensions for our elderly people. Those people want to live in dignity and have a happy and healthy retirement. Many elderly people in my constituency cannot afford to clothe themselves or to buy essential food. Worst of all, they cannot afford to heat their homes during the winter months. They are fearful of the winter bills and are appalled at the miserly contribution that the Government have made to support them during the winter. Above all, the 7,000 unemployed people in Withington voted against Tory policies that gave them no hope that they would ever get a job. They voted for a Labour party that is committed to real and skilled jobs that will give  them hope for the future. They voted for the jobs that could be provided quickly in the Health Service in south Manchester, in our local authorities in Manchester and in the construction industry so that houses can be renovated to provide those decent homes for which, as I have already said, people are crying out. Instead, we are confronted with Mickey Mouse employment schemes, non-skilled labour and just another method of reducing the unemployment figures. However, even on the Government's figures, almost 7,000 people in Withington are waiting to receive a job. The people of Withington voted against the tax cuts that are embodied in the Bill. They voted for an expansion of public services, provided by the local authority, to meet the needs of local people. They voted for the policies that would provide those services for our elderly people, families and children, for whom we should care. In Manchester the number of people living in poverty has risen dramatically since 1979. Nearly 50 per cent. of Manchester's population are now either dependent on supplementary benefit or have to live on wages that are below supplementary benefit levels. In other words, nearly half the people of Manchester are on or below the poverty line that has been officially set by the Government. Those people rely on the services provided by Manchester city council, but, since 1979, £1 million has been stolen from Manchester every week in the form of rate support grant or subsidy — money that would have been used to alleviate the grinding poverty in our city and to provide essential jobs such as home helps to care for our elderly and nursery teachers to look after our children. As soon as I was elected on 11 June, I wrote to the Prime Minister suggesting that she take notice of the result in Withington and recognise the needs of the Withington people when whe was compiling the Queen's Speech. That approach was ignored, but I have a mandate to fight against all the legislation that will be introduced by the Government. I have a mandate from the people of Withington, because they did not vote for the Government's legislation. The people of Manchester did not vote for it, and eventually the people of this country will not vote for it.
