gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I ask for the indulgence of the House on this, the first time that I have  had the honour to speak in this Chamber? I am fortunate enough to represent the constituency of Leeds, North-East, where so many of those who work in other parts of that great and famous ""city of a hundred industries"" have their homes. All my constituents are, of course, concerned with the health of the economy and with the battle against inflation. It is generally agreed that inflation will not be brought to an end until demand and supply are equal to each other. I welcome the Finance Bill and the Chancellor's pledge to cut Government expenditure, his savings drive and all his other measures to reduce demand, but it would be, of course, much more agreeable if part of the job of defeating inflation could be done by increasing supply. I wonder whether the Financial Secretary would agree—and I am not asking for any spending of money—that the Government should, as far as possible, foster increasing productivity so as to achieve a larger output at lower unit cost and so tackle inflation and all our other economic problems from the positive end as well as, and at the same time as, encouraging savings. After savings, should not increased productivity be our main concern if we are, as hon. Members on both sides of the House desire, to defeat inflation, to maintain and improve the standard of living and to play our part, as the hon. Member for Flint, East (Mrs. White) has mentioned, in helping Commonwealth and underdeveloped countries? My own feeling is that the cut in Government expenditure and the Exchequer's financial control of nationalized industries, provided for in Clause 34—both admirable measures in themselves—afford the Chancellor an opportunity to improve productivity generally. Hon. Members will know that there are now available techniques of progressive management, such as work study, incentive systems and cost control, which are tools to improve productivity. They offer us no panacea, but with the co-operation of wage-earners they can reduce effort and cost. Whilst the best of private enterprise already makes the fullest use of these techniques and is probably unrivalled in the world, it seems to me that there is further scope for them in large sections of private enterprise.   in Government and in nationalised industries. This is not distressing. If there were no slack to be taken up, we should have less hope in a competitive world. May I suggest that the Chancellor cannot only save his £100 million but can do it in a way which will spread the use of these management techniques throughout the economy to the permanent benefit of the country? No one could expect the Government, in fostering productivity, to do more than two things—first, to set an example throughout the public sector of the economy and, secondly, see that taxation and social legislation encourage rather than discourage the dynamic democracy which we all want. The example has been set by both parties. There are organisation and method sections at the Treasury and in most Government Departments. There is the Government-sponsored British Productivity Council, in which employers and trade unionists all over the country—often with trade unionists in the lead—are together trying to spread modern methods. So the example is being set by the Government. But might it not be worth the Government's while to see whether the terms of reference of their own oraginsation and methods advisers are sufficiently wide to yield the fullest economies possible? Might it not also be wise to let these experts loose on some of the manual as well as the clerical operations of Government, for instance the Post Office or the ordnance factories or hospital laundries? The Government are already clearly taking productivity seriously, and I am only suggesting one or two extensions of their activities. Where, however, it seems that the full benefits of these new techniques have yet to be reaped—and in some cases even to be sown—is in the nationalised industries, other than the airlines. The Coal Board's latest Report shows that it is just beginning to put into effect the modern management methods recommended by the Fleck Committee. The Central Electricity Authority will presumably be acting upon the Herbert Report, which in paragraph 503 commented on the lack of ""modern aids to good management"". The British Transport Commission has only just set up a work study unit. The last Report of the  Gas Council makes no mention of these matters. It would seem that these great organisations have scarcely yet begun to take full advantage of these new techniques, with all the possible benefits to the public in the way of reduced costs. Now that the Chancellor is going to press the fee into the piper's hand, I hope that he urges the piper to use work study and cost control. Surely the public expects all spenders of public money to use modern techniques to improve service while reducing costs. Private enterprise managers should be keen enough to improve productivity, because with them virtue and profit go hand in hand, but there are too many firms which have not yet seen the light. Perhaps competition—sharpened by the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill—will force them to modernise, even if the example of their leaders and of Government has failed. In my own industry of building and civil engineering contracting, where the strongest competition prevails and obliges firms to seek efficiency, there is scope for improved techniques to reduce effort and cost. Some firms employ their own or outside productivity experts. Some use the new central advisory service. Far too many use neither. It is clear that the Government are setting a good example, but should they not also further stimulate progress? While welcoming the annuity and Millard Tucker Clauses in the Finance Bill, I must regret the lack of tax relief for management. Our ablest brains and characters should find in management a reward equal to their heavy responsibilities, for they are heavy, as I hope to show. Some say that the only trouble today is that people do not work hard enough. I suppose that there are some slackers at all levels. Application to work is still vital, but the better the management, the more likely it is that people will work hard. Not that hard work is today the only criterion. What matters today is the effectiveness of work—the combination of output, quality and cost, which we call productivity—and the standard of productivity depends upon the standard of management. It is far more sensible to criticise management, whether of nationalised industries, the local authorities or private enterprise, than it is to criticise wage earners, but if management bears this heavy burden, surely it should have a proper reward? Both in America and in Russia, the take-home pay of a manager is very considerably more, in comparison with the craftsman's net pay, than it is here. America and Russia think it worth while to reward management properly. I had hoped, therefore, that my right hon. Friend might have found it possible to increase the level at which Surtax begins, at least for earned income, if not for all income, if he wishes to encourage savings. I hope that the Chancellor will follow this savings Budget with a productivity Budget, in which he will seek the cooperation of the wage earners and management. After all, the wage earners have, in nearly every case, accepted these new techniques, despite the understandable suspicion that increased productivity might mean unemployment. I think we would all agree that one of our main concerns must be to exorcise that nightmare, because I believe that it is a totally unjustified fear. We live in an expanding age: increasing productivity should mean more jobs, not fewer, though it still leaves us with the obligation to humanise, so far as the Government, the employers and the trade unions can, the mobility of labour which is so essential. From the last Report of the Ministry of Labour, it appears that the Government already have a scheme in operation which can help in the very rare cases of wage earners whose craft is invented out of existence, and who, therefore, have to move elsewhere. From that Report, it appears that in 1954 104 people were assisted by the Government to remove their homes. Perhaps the smallness of the number indicates the smallness of the need, but I would suggest that it might be wise to make the principles behind that safety net scheme more generally known. To sum up, if the Chancellor, who has given the country an admirable and necessary savings Budget, will use the £100 million cut in Government expenditure and his Exchequer control of the nationalised industries to lead public enterprise  to modern managerial techniques, he will not only help to secure our expanding future, but will be creating the high standard of management and the mobility of labour which are two of the essentials of a dynamic democracy.
