gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for your kindness in calling me, and I hope that I shall have the honour to be called again. I ask that before you have heard what I shall say. It is difficult to follow the excellent speech of the hon. Member for Carmarthen (Dr. Thomas). I hope that I shall certainly have the opportunity of hearing him again on many occasions. I should like to thank right hon. and hon. Members for being present this evening. I hope that they will not leave the Chamber, however tedious I may be. I hope that they will not act like the guests at one dinner party of which I heard. There the post-prandial speaker went on at interminable length until the audience tiptoed out of the room one by one, leaving a solitary guest at the end of the table. The speaker turned to him and said ""I think that I should thank you for having remained to listen to me"", to which he received the reply ""That is quite all right. I am the next speaker."" It is inhibiting and awesome enough for a new Member to make his maiden speech in this honourable House, but I am afraid, as you will have detected, Mr. Speaker, that I have an added disability tonight, and that is in my voice, which appears to be leaving me. The sole consolation that I can offer the House is that I cannot detain it too long. I think that I probably have the most difficult task of any new Member, for two reasons. First, I follow in the footsteps of Cledwyn Hughes, known colloquially as Mr. Anglesey. He was universally revered and respected in this House and elsewhere, but deeply so in his constituency. It is no exaggeration to say that for 28 years he kept Anglesey for the Labour Party. The strength of his personality alone did that. A measure of his popularity in the constituency is the number of Conservatives that I have discovered there who have told me that they used to vote for Mr. Hughes. That shows perhaps that Conservative voters  are discriminating if, at times, somewhat politically naive. I believe that Mr. Hughes will be sadly missed in this House, and I am certainly glad that I followed rather than supplanted him. The second reason why my task is difficult is that people will expect great things of me, since I achieved the highest winning swing in the United Kingdom—12½ per cent. It was described in The Economist as the most remarkable gain of the election. I suppose that my quest for superlatives is assisted by my surname, but I feel that it will be very difficult to attempt to live up to that. I must also remember the words of advice given by Lloyd George to his daughter Megan, who was the previous incumbent to Cledwyn Hughes in Anglesey. I believe that Lloyd George said to his daughter ""It is easier for a gander to pass through the eye of a needle than for a Tory to be elected in Anglesey."" This Parliament has now seen the first-ever Conservative Member elected for Anglesey, and I am sure that the island will not stray from the true path again. I know that it is customary on these occasions to describe one's constituency as the most beautiful in the whole United Kingdom, and I recognise that my hon. Friend the Member for Brecon and Radnor (Mr. Hooson) followed the convention, doing precisely that, but I speak with the certainty that I am right when I so describe my constituency—and, anyway, how many right hon. and hon. Members here tonight would be so uncharitable as to gainsay me on the occasion of my maiden speech? Anglesey has everything to offer. It has a beautiful coastline of caves and bays which has afforded shelter to small boats over hundreds—indeed, thousands—of years and which now attracts thousands of visitors each year. It is undulating and low-lying, with remarkably equable temperatures throughout the year, with very small seasonal variations. The House will probably have gathered by now that I am doing a public relations job for the tourist board of Anglesey. I should add that spring arrives in Anglesey two weeks earlier than it does in the heartland of Wales. Moreover—I say this with apologies to my hon. Friends here tonight—Anglesey is the driest   county in Wales, which is perhaps saying something. In fact, Holyhead itself has more sunshine than do even the coastal resorts of North and West Wales. I believe that Anglesey is a paradise island. It has what I regard as the call of the Sirens about it, which is exemplified by the way in which visitors come to the island. They hear the call of the Sirens and they stay. I know your views on the island of Anglesey, Mr. Speaker, and I feel that the mysticism of the ancient Druids still lingers on and lures the unwary traveller and holidaymaker to remain in that idyllic world. This, surely, is why the electorate has grown by more than 10 per cent. over the past five years. I believe also that Anglesey presents a very good cameo for the whole of Wales. Agriculture is extremely important, and I am glad that the Government have removed the threat of wealth tax and back-door agricultural land nationalisation with which agriculture was so seriously threatened during the past few years. But we must now, I think, be careful not to introduce a new threat to our most important industries—and notably agriculture—the threat of soaring fuel costs, the ramifications of which can be so desperately and disastrously widespread. In Anglesey we have a variety of industries. We have the power station at Wylfa, a thriving and expanding port served by British Rail, and many light industries. But, unfortunately—there must, I suppose, always be an unfortunate element introduced in a speech of this kind—there is deep sadness in Anglesey, as there is in the rest of Wales, in that we have the most appalling unemployment. Unemployment in Anglesey rose from 8 per cent. when the Conservatives were last in office to the disastrous figure of some 14 per cent. under the Labour Government. I shall not be as cruel to the Labour Government as the hon. Member for Bedwellty (Mr. Kinnock) was to the Conservative Government in 1972, when, in Opposition, he attacked them and, referring to unemployment rates at half the level to which they peaked under the Labour Government, said: Ever since the day of John Maynard Keynes, any Government allowing unemployment  rates to rise not even as high as this rate have been guilty, if not of a criminal act, certainly of criminal negligence.""—[Official Report, 24 January 1972; Vol. 829. c. 1089.] It would be asking too much to have such a distinguished audience as that of the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Foot) listening to my maiden speech. However, it is a pity that the right hon. Gentleman is not here, as in July 1974 he was quoted in the Daily Mirror as saying: I'm not prepared to sit in this place and preside over mass unemployment. The Government have relieved him of the embarrassment of presiding over mass unemployment. As for sitting here, who knows what the future holds? The Conservative Government have the right ideas for trying to ameliorate the disastrous effects of unemployment, which are the principal affliction in the side of the people of Wales. It is against that background of high unemployment that I consider Anglesey Aluminium. The company would like to expand and provide some 500 extra jobs for my constituents. It was prevented from doing so by the previous Government and the CEGB, which would not provide electricity at a cost as competitive as that charged by other countries to their similar industries. That was regrettable. We currently consume in the United Kingdom only a little more aluminium than we actually produce. However, by 1985 we shall have to import around half of our aluminium, and that will be in the economic climate of a world shortfall in aluminium supplies. By providing cheaper electricity to Anglesey Aluminium we would not only assist the United Kingdom's requirements but provide much-needed jobs in Anglesey. I know the prospects are not very great, but I hope that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Energy will consider the problem carefully. Where else can we find future employment in Wales? I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Brecon and Radnor, who spoke about the small businesses. As my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State said, more than half the employment in Wales comes from businesses employing fewer than 200 people. I conducted a survey of small businesses in Anglesey and that showed conclusively that they all wished to expand and take   on extra staff. But they dared not do so because of the employment protection legislation. That is not party political propaganda from a new Conservative Back Bencher. That is solid fact. Those in my constituency who try to run small businesses and wish to take on extra staff cannot do so. That is why I welcome the Conservative Government's proposal to review employment protection legislation and to reduce Government interference in small business. That is where a tremendous capacity for employment lies in future. There is a great need for the activities of the Welsh Development Agency. I welcome the comments of my right hon. Friend on the WDA. I also welcome the new scheme, announced today, which guarantees loans of up to £50,000 to business men with interesting projects who are unable to provide the necessary security. We must allow the Welsh Development Agency a degree of flexibility financially to assist the businesses most in need. It appears that the small business unit now gives assistance only to wholesalers or manufacturers. There are many others occupied in small businesses who need similar assistance but who are not necessarily involved in wholesaling or manufacturing. One of my constituents who is in the greengrocery and canned food retail business wishes to expand and take on extra staff. However, the Welsh Development Agency has not assisted him. I hope that my right hon. Friend will look at the matter to make sure that those who can produce extra employment facilities in industries and small businesses will be assisted. There is need for financial assistance, especially in Wales. But there must be a greater scrutiny over financial assistance and where it goes. Automatic assistance was given to the Milford Haven Gulf refinery. That investment was unnecessary, as it would have come in any event. The cost to the taxpayer of each job was about £38,500. All Members of Parliament, certainly Government supporters, will agree that that is a ridiculous way in which to squander public money. That, incidentally, compares most unfavourably with the Welsh tourist trade, in which jobs are being created at a cost to the taxpayer of less than £2,000 per job. This is where we should concentrate.  We must look to the jobs for the future. They must be provided in the areas of greatest need. We must create the greatest number of jobs for the least amount of money. That is why I urge my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State to consider where we shall get the best value for money in employment. We must ensure that we create the extra jobs that are so desperately needed in Wales. It always saddened me when people spoke of unemployment statistics. Perhaps it is only when we become Members of Parliament, having spoken to so many people, that we realise that they are not only statistics. They relate to people, our constituents, the Welsh people, who have lost their jobs and who are now crying out for them. The Welsh poet summarised the situation when he said: Cyfocth gwlad yw ei thrigolion which means that the wealth of a nation is in its people. Members of Parliament on both sides of the House should never forget that.
