gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
To win a by-election is a wonderful, memorable and satisfying experience, but my elation on winning the Meriden by-election has been very much tempered by the sad circumstances which brought it about, as I did not have the pleasure of meeting the late Christopher Rowland. During the short time that he was in the House I know that he made a significant contribution to its work. He was an extremely popular, conscientious and hard-working constituency Member of Parliament who was liked and respected by all shades of political opinion in Meriden. In the level of service to his constituents he set a very high standard that I will find difficult to live up to. His sudden death at any early age is both a Parliamentary and a personal tragedy. Meriden is a microcosm of the nation. If one fed into a computer all the national occupations, national incomes and social groupings in order to find a truly representative English constituency, the answer would be Meriden. It has thousands of   car workers, miners, commuters, businessmen, housewives, farmers and all the rest; there is the beautiful countryside; there are some of the biggest power plants in the country; and there are massive overspill schemes for Coventry and Birmingham. Indeed, the centre of England is in the Meriden constituency. Midlanders are a shrewd, hard-headed bunch of people—I am a Midlander— and they are looking with more than usual interest at this Bill. I hope to keep my remarks temperate and non-controversial, although it may be difficult from time to time. If I stray into the realms of controversy, I hope that the House will forgive me. The first test in legislation seeking to cure or solve a problem seems to be to analyse the problem. My right hon. Friend the Member for Mitcham (Mr. R. Carr) referred to this in his speech. We have had a lot of argument, but very little analysis. Taking the last 10 years, the average annual industrial earnings in this country have risen considerably slower than all our main trading competitors, with the exception of Canada, the United States and Switzerland. We find that our annual rise in prices is broadly the same as our main trading competitors, but our annual increase in industrial production over those 10 years has been rising only half as fast as theirs. In terms of take-home pay and fringe benefits, the British worker today is pretty low down the European league. This downward trend is accelerating fast. The Bill can only accelerate the acceleration even more. At the same time, industrial production—the other side of the equation —will get little boost from a negative policy of control and restrictions and lower living standards, which is a concomitant of the Bill. On the face of it, it would seem that earnings are not the main problem. In the short term, no evidence that I have seen suggests that controls of this kind have anything but a marginal effect on our balance of payments. I suppose there could be beneficial psychological effects on our overseas bankers, but these benefits are outweighed, by the inevitable souring of industrial relations and the ossification of industry and management. When one lumps together the go-ahead  and the inefficient in legislation of this kind the lowest common factor emerges. Perhaps I might strike a topical note here. It seems that there is a direct correlation between the renaissance of English football, the World Cup, the European championships and all the rest. This renaissance was begun when the artificial controls on footballers' earnings and bonuses was lifted. They were given incentives, and we found footballers paying surtax. From that date to this England has led the world in football. In the long run, the strict control of incomes could have a beneficial effect on our balance of payments, as was hinted at by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Belper (Mr. George Brown). But the long run is nearer five to ten years. I believe that the cost in stifling business, individual enterprise and initiative and the abandonment of democracy, industrial and political as we know it, is too high a price to pay. I do not see any future in this country being the under-developed country of Europe with a low-wage, low-cost, low-investment economy. That, again, would be the result of a five to 10-year policy of strict controls. If that is so, surely, when we are talking in terms of five to 10 years, it is better to deal with the restructuring and the essential problems in the economy. After all, if an engineer works with a workshop manual which is 60 years out of date, he is probably a very bad engineer and will soon go broke. The legal framework of industrial relations, the structure of our industrial wages system, and all too often the processes by which management decisions are taken, are relics of this bygone age. This means that if restructuring is to work these things must be tackled. At the same time, there must be a vast increase in management retraining and in industrial retraining. If industrial over-manning is to become a thing of the past, earnings, investments, and the dividends from those investments, must be free to reflect the efficiency and the growth of the industries concerned. If we want a low-cost high-wage economy both industry and Government should have as their aim a five-year write-off in capital equipment as is done in many   other countries. If we want greater machine utilisation—and this is an essential part of increasing productivity—this means more three- or four-shift working. Indeed, if one is talking in terms of employment taxes as being desirable— and I have my doubts about this—this seems to be a more promising sphere for action than an arbitrary division between manufacturing and services. When one is talking about more three or four-shift working, we, as Parliament, should be examining the social implications of such a policy. The opening hours of ""pubs"", shops, entertainment and transport are things which should be more seriously considered. It is not just a question of money; it is a question of virtually going into purdah when one starts work on a three- or four-shift system. At the same time, industry needs to get a much better market-oriented approach rather than a production oriented approach. By that I mean make what the market wants rather than make what the factory thinks it desirable to make. Recent industrial mergers lead me to be slightly optimistic that this has at last got through to certain sections of British industry. If the long-term problems are best solved by that restructuring, as I think they are, what should happen in the short term. First, the Government must act as any housewife acts—that is, to live within their means. I would even go further than perhaps a lot of right hon. and hon. Gentlemen are prepared to go. In present circumstances, for every proposed extra £ of expenditure there should be a proposed £ reduction in existing expenditure. This would at least be a wonderful discipline for thought, if nothing else. However desirable projects may be, whether loans or grants to industry, private or nationalised, whether buying American aircraft which do not fly, increasing employment, building more roads or anything else, all these desirable things should be debated, but at the end of the day the case should be argued and equal increases in expenditure savings made. If this were done in present circumstances, then, as economic growth is resumed, social advance can be resumed  and this can be soundly based. If such a policy were carried out, the increase in prices caused by increases in direct taxation could be largely mitigated. Let no one doubt that increases in indirect taxation, particularly the recent ones in the Budget, can cause real social misery to many people living just above the social security margin. A man who must use his car to go to work faces an extra bill of 8s. for his motoring—there are many of them in a rural and overspill constituency like Meriden—and also finds that his wages are frozen and housekeeping is tight; he has to face frustration and despair and possibly even cut his wife's housekeeping so that he can go to work. People who dismiss this and imagine that this increase in indirect taxation will have only marginal effects are underestimating the deep concern of many people, particularly the lower-paid workers. At the same time, many people consider that our social security system is now giving many benefits to prop people who are shiftless and work-shy, while people who desperately need help are not getting it, and thus the increase in taxation, particularly indirect taxation on the lower-paid workers, is becoming an intolerable burden. My final objection to the Bill is that it places increasing reliance on the Prices and Incomes Board. I do not wish to make any personal criticism of Mr. Aubrey Jones or his hundreds of colleagues working for the Board, who, in their terms of reference, are doing a good job, but we should query the terms of reference. There is now a pethora of economic planning boards, councils and Standing Committees, discussing this and that, and above them all is the National Board for Prices and Incomes. All these bodies have real and growing powers with influence over the lives of everyone. While to feed them with information is taking up more and more of the valuable time of industrialists and trade unionists who would be better employed, in the national interest, in running their own affairs, there faceless ""supercrats"" are answerable to no one. They take on themselves decisions which are properly the function of Parliament, local authorities, management and the trade unions.   Even if they have a monopoly of wisdom, which I doubt, this is not democracy— certainly not as I understand it. I apologise to the House if I have strained the indulgence which is customary on this occasion—
