gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to speak for the first time in the House and I thank my constituents for giving me the opportunity to do so. I have the honour to represent the people of Delyn. One of the local guides to the constituency begins its description somewhat baldly. It says: Situated in the most north easterly point of Wales this oblong area of land …"". Delyn is indeed oblong but also much more. It is bounded on one side by the beautiful Clwydian hills with the river Alyn running at their foot and on the other by the Dee estuary. The name Delyn is a combination and abbreviation of the two names Dee and Alyn, fortuituously producing a Welsh word which means ""harp"". As I represent a new constituency, I have two predecessors, both of whom remain Members of Parliament although they represent new constituencies. I have been lucky enough to inherit more than two thirds of the constituency which was formerly held by my hon. Friend the Member for Clwyd, North-West (Sir A. Meyer). If I had not inherited that area from him I should not be here now. I am also lucky, because the area could not have been better represented or more carefully and  caringly tended in the past 13 years. For that alone, I owe a debt of gratitude to my hon. Friend. That debt becomes all the greater in view of the kindness that he has shown me and the guidance he has given me since I came here. The remaining third of my constituency was formerly represented by the hon. Member for Alyn and Deeside (Mr. Jones). I congratulate him on his election to the shadow Cabinet and his appointment as shadow Secretary of State for Wales. As he is one of my constituents, he is in an enviable position to make representations to his Member of Parliament. I count myself equally fortunate to have him as my parliamentary neighbour. I look forward to the boundary between our constituencies becoming one of the front lines in Welsh politics. I have only one distinction upon entering the House. There can be few other hon. Members who have contested seats in each part of Great Britain. As so often happens in our political system, I now represent an area with which I have had no family or other connection but with which I already feel considerable empathy. I am the only Scotsman who represents a Welsh constituency although, in deference to the Leader of the Opposition, I must add that I am not the only Welsh Member of Scottish descent. There, any distinction I might conceivably claim comes to an abrupt end. I am not the first Scotsman to sit for my part of the old county of Flint. Samuel Smith, an Edinburgh-born cotton broker, had that honour way back in 1886. He was described at the time as A most benevolent, high minded Scotchman who, seems to be under the impression that he has been chosen by the electors of Flintshire to represent India in the House of Commons"". That is a somewhat unkind reference to his first election campaign which he somehow managed to spend in the subcontinent. At the subsequent election, he was less nomadic. He referred to it briefly in his autobiography entitled, ""My Life Work"": I was not opposed and so got a welcome opportunity of a trip to the Highlands"". Perhaps another fortunate by-product of the end of the empire is that Scotsmen now spend election cä Delyn is a diverse community of four towns and 34 villages. Prestatyn, on the north coast, is well known as a holiday and retirement town. Holywell, near the centre, is the borough headquarters and has the nearby tourist attractions of St. Winifrede's Well and the Greenfield valley. Flint, in the south-east corner on Deeside, is the industrial centre. Mold, a few miles to the west, is the bustling county town of Clwyd. Within that diversity, however, there is uniformity. Those areas, which differ widely in character, have one major problem in common — unemployment. Only five constituencies represented by Conservative Members have a higher rate of unemployment than that of my constituency. That is the dimension of the problem and of the challenge that the Government are doing their utmost to meet. The purpose of my intervention in the debate is to ensure that they continue to do so. The employment difficulties of Delyn and Deeside are easily précis-ed. Until recently jobs were concentrated in only two major industries, textiles and steel. As those industries went into decline unemployment rose sharply, and that decline began well before the onset of the present recession. Major redundancies at the three Courtaulds works in the constituency occurred as long ago as 1973, reaching a peak of more than 1,500 in 1977. The earliest   ones at Shotton, which is just outside my constituency, occurred between 1975 and 1976, when nearly 2,000 people lost their jobs. Sadly, large-scale unemployment is not a recent phenomenon in my constituency; it goes back not four years but 10. It is a long-term problem that demands a long term strategy, which is just what Delyn has been given by the Government — a strategy to attract new, smaller, more diverse industry, businesses that will reduce the area's fatal over-dependence on the old major industries. It has been given not only a strategy, but the hard cash to implement it. The Delyn enterprise zone at Flint is the springboard for the constituency's industrial regeneration. The Government have already provided £7·2 million to clear away the industrial dereliction of the past and prepare the land for new factories. Next Tuesday my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Wales will visit the zone to demolish, all on his own, the last remaining vestiges of the industrial pasta 365 ft chimney that dominates the town of Flint. He will then visit the new — the £15 million Kimberley-Clark Kleenex manufacturing plant which is expected to employ at least 600 people by the end of the decade. It is a symbol of Delyn's economic future that has already attracted several companies to show keen interest in the zone. Flint has an adult population of 10,000, yet since 1973 the town has lost nearly 2,500 jobs, producing a male unemployment rate of 40 per cent. The Government have responded to Flint's desperate needs with the enterprise zone strategy, and with the money to implement it, to provide the essential infrastructure for new industry. Delyn borough council has responded to the Government's efforts by giving its fullest co-operation. The council and its chief executive, John Packer, deserve much praise for the sensible and imaginative way in which they are handling the zone's development. I should add that I include the local Labour councillors in that tribute; they have shown a far more positive and constructive approach towards enterprise zones than have their colleagues on the Opposition Benches. The work of attracting new industry has only just begun, but it has begun well. The Government have given a lead, and Delyn's economy is no longer drifting aimlessly. It now has a clear sense of direction. However, much remains to be done. I have come into contact with representatives of several new businesses who still do not know where to turn for the help and advice they badly need, especially when they must sift through the more than 100 measures introduced by the Government to encourage their growth. As a last resort they have turned to their Member of Parliament to provide the link with the Welsh Office and with the Welsh Development Agency. Even then they have experienced long delays in the processing of grant applications—delays that their cash flows can ill afford. Some have eventually succeeded. Others have been told to try their luck in the City, with no further directions given. New small businesses still encounter too much bureaucracy and not enough help. However, that does not detract seriously from the good beginning that has been made. I thank hon. Members for their patience in listening to me today. I am only too conscious of the fact that it is not often that a piece of meat, however lean, is thrown down from the Press Gallery, so in those circumstances I am all the more appreciative of the House's generosity.
