gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a great and sincere sense of humility and a real feeling for the historical background of the House that I rise to speak here for the first time. First times can vary from  the glittering occasion to what I have heard described in Westmorland, where I was born and raised in quite modest circumstances, as the first, last and the ruddy-well monumentally everlasting. I sincerely hope that not only on this occasion but henceforth I shall be able to contribute to the proceedings of the House both in human and useful political terms. In this my maiden speech as the new Member for Sudbury and Woodbridge, I am sure that my primary duty, and my overriding wish, is to pay tribute to my predecessor. John Hare has gone to another place. But I have no doubt that hon. Members on both sides of the House will join with me in wishing him all the best as Viscount Blakenham of Little Blakenham—there is a Great Blakenham over the hill—in the County of Suffolk. I have no doubt that just as John Hare won the affection and admiration of the people of Suffolk, so, as a distinguished Member for no less than 18 years, he enjoyed the good will of all hon. Members. His friendliness, humility, approachability and, above all, his willingness to see all sides of any question have made him a whole host of friends, whatever their calling or political complexion. From a number of Press cuttings which have come my way, I gather that the result of the by-election in Sudbury and Woodbridge surprised many. A certain cartoonist even pictured Sudbury as the lone swallow which did not necessarily make a summer. I hesitate, however, to describe the characters depicted in the cartoonist's shooting party out after their pheasants. Similar pundits have toyed with the idea of portraying a mad March hare scampering in crazy zigzag fashion over the fallow winter fields. May I remind the House that even the vitriolic Cobbett in his Rural Rides spoke of Suffolk as a county of true abundance and good husbandry. Alas, in one phrase he said that he always found Suffolk men great boasters of their superiority over others. But, after a semi-colon, he added that he had to say that that was not without reason. The purpose of the debate is to consider the Government's Bill to restrict—and I emphasise restrict as opposed to abolish—the practice of resale price   maintenance. I must now address myself to this important departure in the business practice of this country. Before doing so, I must declare an interest as a director of a public company which acts as general wholesalers and operates a chain of retail outlets. Foodstuffs, ""near"" foods and alcohol are our line of country. In declaring this interest, I hope that I am able to convey, without undue precociousness, some intimate appreciation of the Bill. I understand—indeed, I could not have failed to register after all the advice which has been heaped upon me—that a maiden speech must be non-contro-versial. This I intend to make my endeavour, even if a pebble or two are dislodged underfoot, My task in this regard is enormously facilitated by the fact that all political parties have committed themselves to the same objective, albeit some more harshly and forthrightly than others. The Bill must commend itself to the House even if only because we as a nation do not wish to be daubed as the last outpost of Poujadism in the West. The attitude, temperature and thrustfulness of business management is all-important in our endeavours to drive forward to the goal of modernisation and fuller economic wellbeing. Coupled with the White Paper on further action against monopolies and restrictive practices—including, I am glad to see, ""information agreements"" and ""price leadership""—I regard the Bill as an important contribution to the modernisation of Britain. It would be wrong, however, to concentrate too much on the immediate price benefits to the consumer from a restriction of r.p.m. This will in any case be unlikely to exceed an overall reduction in the cost of living of one or two points over the next year or so—whatever the dramatic gestures with bottles of whisky and washing machines and T.V. sets. This, quite simply, is because the effective area over which r.p.m. now operates is not overwhelming. Spending on foodstuffs is virtually 30 per cent. of consumer expenditure, and r.p.m. went out of the window in this respect two or three years age, as I realised in very salutary terms, having reacted in my own company. Perhaps a further 40 per cent. of spending is also unaffected. This leaves us with a balance of 30 per cent. or so of recurrent consumer expenditure which is covered by ostensible r.p.m. I stress that it is ostensible r.p.m. because we all know of what in Germany is called the ""grey market"" —staff association club cards; knowing someone who knows somebody else who can get it wholesale; the argy-bargy of trading in one's old T.V. or washing machine or car—and 90 per cent. of new cars are sold against trade-ins. The real meaning of the Bill is basic and long term. I have already stressed the thrustfulness of management and the keen edge of competition, and I should now like briefly to turn to the structure of the retail trades to see what might happen if this thrustfulness and keenness of competition make themselves felt. We have available to us the Censuses of Distribution of 1950, 1957 and partly for 1961. Looking at those 1961 figures which have been published, one is struck by the fact that the average size of retail outlets in terms of retail over-the-counter sales is £15,500. This is from 577,000 retail outlets. If out of this latter figure one takes a mere 3,750 department, variety and general stores, the average size of shop falls from £15,500 takings a year to £13,000. This average must surely conceal a situation of proliferation of small units from which resources could be better deflected to other parts of the economy. I would a so draw attention to the poor productivity record in retailing. By a process of deflating prices in the 1961 Census of Distribution to the basis of 1950, it is possible to estimate that the true increase in productivity in retailing over the decade 1950–61 has been a mere 10½ per cent., while between 1952 and 1963 the productivity index in total manufacturing rose by three times as much. This contrast must be seen in the light of nearly two million persons engaged full time in the retail trades, and nearly 700,000 employed there part-time. In some sectors of the retail trade performance has been better than that. Only a deeper analysis can reveal the areas now open to us for improvement, but it is this prospect of improvement and its impact on our general economic development over the years which should   command our attention and which should commend the Bill to the House
