gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to make my maiden speech on the Second Reading of the Finance Bill. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford (Mr. Beard) on his thought-provoking maiden speech. I have the honour to represent Upminster, which is in the London borough of Havering, on the east side of Greater London. I am the first Labour Member to represent the constituency, which was formed following the boundary reorganisation in the early 1970s. I also have the pleasure of living and working in the constituency. Let me take this opportunity of thanking my predecessor, Sir Nicholas Bonsor, for his public service during his time as Member of Parliament for Upminster. Sir Nicholas represented the constituency for 15 years, from 1982. Before that, from 1979, he represented Nantwich. His predecessor was Sir John Loveridge, who represented the constituency from 1974 until 1979. Between 1995 and the general election, Sir Nicholas Bonsor was Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and he was well known in the House for his work as Chairman of the Select Committee on Defence between 1992 and 1995. He assisted many constituents during his 15 years representing Upminster. During the election campaign—which was conducted in accordance with the best of our traditions—he was both fair and honourable, and he was particularly gracious in defeat. I wish him and his family well for the future. My constituency includes the towns of Harold Hill, Harold Wood, Emerson Park, Cranham and Upminster. Most of the residents of the area have come from the inner part of east London or are members of families born there. They are part of the well-known eastward drift that has taken place since the 1920s. Those families have returned to Labour and have given me the honour of representing them in Parliament. I shall always be grateful for their trust and support. Let me briefly describe my constituency. It is bisected by two road arteries from London, the A12 and the A127. In many ways, those roads act as natural barriers to close integration between the communities that make up the constituency. The M25, which traverses the eastern and northern boundaries of the constituency, provides excellent access to the motorway network, but it has its down side: there is a good deal of noise pollution, which mainly affects residents of east Cranham. More needs to be done to limit noise pollution from our motorways where they are located close to housing estates. I am sure that many other constituencies suffer similar problems. The constituency is also bisected by two main railway lines, the London-Tilbury-Southend line and Great Eastern Railways, which serve Upminster and Harold Wood stations respectively. They provide important links to the centre of London and surrounding parts of Essex and East Anglia. Upminster is also served by the London Underground District line and is its eastern terminus. In addition to its fame for being at the end of the District line, Upminster is the home of the world famous Travel Club of Upminster, a long-established family tour operator whose reputation is envied within the industry. Many other small and medium-sized businesses are based in my constituency and I know that they welcome many of the provisions in the Finance Bill. The constituency has many tine schools and a general hospital at Harold Wood which require additional funding to maintain and improve the standards that my constituents rightly demand. Large numbers of my constituents commute into the City of London, and the rail transport and road links with the centre of London are a primary concern to them. They know the importance of a strategic authority for London and an integrated transport policy. Harold Hill deserves a particular mention. Locally, it is known as ""the hill"". It is a fine housing estate providing many good homes. Harold Hill was planned and developed for the London overspill after the second world war. The estate was designed chiefly by the former London county council. The advantage of good-quality social housing with gardens and plenty of green open space should never be ignored by our town planners. As a consequence of the previous Government's housing policies, however, waiting lists for rented homes are far too long. Many of my advice surgery cases relate to housing and I believe that the phased release of capital receipts will go some way towards alleviating the problem. My constituents' concerns are similar to those described in many maiden speeches in the past nine weeks or so. Those concerns were raised time and again during the general election campaign. They relate to education, health, unemployment, housing and the decline in public services delivered by the local authority. I shall now make some specific points about the Finance Bill, which will begin to address my constituents' concerns. First, I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on his Budget, which is sensible, prudent and innovative. Above all, it honours election pledges. It contains many specific proposals that I applaud, particularly the welfare-to-work programme, which has signalled the reversal of our economic decline. They have particular relevance to the unemployment blackspots in my constituency which are mainly in the   Harold Hill area. The wards of Hilldene, Gooshays and Heaton are particularly badly affected. The reduction in VAT on fuel and power will be of particular benefit to many pensioners in my constituency. The previous Government's policies failed the nation because, among other things, they were short term. The distinguishing feature of the Budget and the Finance Bill is that they lay down foundations for the long term. The changes in corporation tax will encourage the retention of profits for investment. The abolition of payable tax credits removes a bias in the tax system in favour of distribution rather than retention of profit for investment. The Budget will not be the disaster that Opposition Members are predicting. The doubling of capital allowances will encourage small and medium-sized businesses to invest at an important point in the economic cycle, and the provisions relating to housing are in stark contrast to those introduced by the Conservative party in government. We should remember the problems caused by the changes to MIRAS in the 1980s, which affected many of my constituents. As a solicitor dealing with property matters, I often had to advise clients on problems caused by negative equity, which created many difficulties and contributed to the previous Government's unpopularity, particularly in my constituency. Above all, the Government's plans for education are the best example of the long-term thinking that is crucial to our future and is essential if the nation is to recover and make the necessary improvements in living standards and public services for all our people. The provisions relating to the windfall tax, corporation tax and capital allowances are designed for the many and not for the few, in contrast to the provisions in previous Finance Bills in the past 18 years. The policies will help to deliver the growth that is required to ensure that, in the medium and long term, our education and health services have the increased resources that are so essential and which the electorate endorsed resoundingly at the ballot box. I have no hesitation in supporting the Second Reading of the Bill and commending it to the House.
