gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to refer first to the previous Member of Parliament for my constituency, the late Sir Alfred Broughton, who represented Batley and Morley for 30 years. He was a man of the utmost kindness and consideration to everyone. It is no exaggeration to say that he was loved by his constituents, a great many of whom he had cared for, literally from the cradle, as the family doctor in Batley. His sad death, in almost unique circumstances, was a tragic irony for someone who served his party and his constituents so loyally for so long. His passing is felt deeply throughout the constituency which I now have the honour to represent. He will be remembered for many years to come. There are a number of important matters in the Gracious Speech that have immediate relevance to my constituency. I intend to dwell upon two or three this evening. Not least is the problem of employment and support for local industries. In the Batley area male unemployment approaches 10 per cent. Jobs for women have declined dramatically in recent years with the rapid loss of jobs in the wool textile industry. The Labour Government helped greatly in my area in supporting jobs by means of the wool textile investment scheme, schemes under sections 7 and 8 of the Industry Act, the temporary employment subsidy and short-time working schemes. Youth opportunity programmes have helped school leavers. The backing for the textile industry in multi-fibre arrangement negotiations has been greatly appreciated. However, the fact remains that the wool textile industry in West Yorkshire shed 75,000 jobs over the past 15 years. Nearly 40,000   jobs have been lost in that industry in the past 10 years. Those are extensive losses for any industry, let alone one so heavily concentrated in the valleys of our Industrial Revolution. It is vital to my area and to the communities affected that the problems of inner cities and industrial policy are seen as applying not just to the great cities but to the old industrial valleys, the places that built up this industrial country. My constituency is divided between two metropolitan districts—one of the many quirks of the Local Government Act 1972. There are two education authorities. In Morley, which is in Leeds, I am faced with a fully comprehensive system. In Batley, which is in Kirklees, I am faced with a system which still retains selection at 11, together with a secondary modern school system. The only boys' grammar school in the town is an independent school, to which the local authority sends children and pays fees. In the spring of this year, after a long rearguard battle by a Conservative council, the local authority eventually submitted proposals for comprehensive education in Batley. Those proposals, based on the 11-to-18 secondary system within the Batley township, had the overwhelming support of teachers and governors, and—even with a general election in the offing—I suspect, that of the local Conservative Party and the parliamentary candidate. I view with dismay the opportunity now being opened up for further prevarication and delay in establishing a fully comprehensive system in this part of my constituency. The present situation is demoralising for the children. It is demoralising for the teachers. How can the secondary modern schools attract and retain the best teachers when the brightest children in the town are creamed off at 11? How can it happen when extra resources are given to the grammar schools, one of which is private? How can it happen when no one knows what will be the prospects of a rewarding career within these schools when virtually all the rest of the country is comprehensive? More than 80 per cent. of the children in Batley do not have a choice of the type of secondary school to attend, and, frankly, I have been appalled at what I  can only describe as humbug in this Chamber over the last few days when Conservative Members have spoken about freedom of choice. Eighty per cent. of the children in my constituency do not have freedom of choice in the school that they attend. They are faced by compulsion in secondary modern education. Meanwhile, the Conservative council wishes to pay between £600 and £650 a place to send the 11-plus pass children to the local private boys' grammar school. This will commit that council to about £250,000 a year in supporting a private school. It will strengthen privilege and division within that community. Where, I ask Conservative Members, is the freedom of choice for the rejected majority of 80 per cent.? Where is that freedom of choice to those parents and to those children? I sense a real danger that the preservation of selection and of a divided secondary education system may have become a symbol of the recent general election. I regret the backward-looking proposals for education in the Gracious Speech. I hope very much that a calm and considered view can be taken now that the election is over. I hope that we shall give genuine equality of opportunity to all our children. We must not, after the election, cling to selection and privilege for 20 per cent. and ignore the compulsion which gives a second-class education to 80 per cent. I turn now to housing policy. Despite the fine phrases ringing from the Government Benches about freedom of choice, the reality on the ground is totally different. Both housing authorities in my constituency, Leeds and Kirklees, are under the control of the Conservative Party, and have been since 1975 and 1976 respectively. In Morley, part of the Leeds local authority, the housing waiting list has risen by more than 40 per cent. since 1974. There has also been a substantial rise in the number of those seeking transfers within council housing. Faced with an increasing waiting list of people who have expressed their freedom of choice in the direction of council housing, what has the local council done to meet the wishes of those people? It is fair to say that the Conservatives in control of Leeds city council have built virtually no council houses in my constituency. When people freely choose   to have a council house, and a council does not build them any houses, I regard that as an absolute denial of choice. The council has, in fact, sold houses, and they are always good family houses. In Morley, the truth about choice has been a rising waiting list, with virtually no council houses built, and a selling of council houses. That, I suggest to Conservative Members, is a blatant denial of choice and freedom, and in no way at all can it be regarded as assisting choice in housing. With more council houses being sold than are being built, the exercise of choice has actually diminished, and the sad human reality is reflected in the increasing housing list. What is so clearly demonstrated in practice, at the sharp end of policies, is that Conservative freedoms are not available to the majority. Indeed, they actually harm the prospects of important sections of the community. What is so dangerous about the speeches and statements of Conservative Members on housing and education is that they often seem positively to dislike council housing. They often seem positively to dislike comprehensive schools. Since I have been a Member, I have not heard in this Chamber from Conservative Members any full-hearted recognition of the tremendous boost to real personal freedom and opportunities provided by good council housing and good comprehensive schools. This is why, in practice, in my constituency Conservative councils have stopped building council houses, despite rising waiting lists. They have kept secondary modern schools for 80 per cent. of the children, while putting extra resources into fee-paying private schools. This is the very denial of choice to the majority of people whom I represent, and it is not helping them. There is a basic contradiction, and Conservative Members have not been able to explain why councils are to have the freedom to decide on education policy but are to be compelled to sell council houses. This is a contradiction, and no one can get away from it. In reality, education is a matter of truly national concern. The children of 80 per cent. of the people in Batley will have to compete in a country in which 85 per cent. of the children nationally have had the opportunity of comprehensive education. It is wrong that 80 per cent. of the children  of Batley should start their lives at a disadvantage. The detailed implementation of housing policy must depend on local circumstances. Whereas educational needs should be considered within the national framework, housing policy at the detailed level needs flexibility. The Government have got their emphasis totally the wrong way round. They are proposing freedom for local authorities in education but compulsion in housing. I should like to draw attention to the dangers of conflict, which look very large in relation to the sale of council houses. A number of the aspects of the compulsory sale of council houses are blatantly unfair, and will be seen as such. The compulsory sale of council houses, when there is a rising waiting list, will be seen and felt to be blatantly unfair in those communities. It will be regarded as being forced upon those communities from Westminster and Whitehall. That will breed resentment, and it will grow and grow. As I understand the position—I hope that the Minister will clarify it when he replies to the debate—it seems that the suggested discounts, rising to 50 per cent. after so many years, are to apply to people and not to houses. If that is the case. I assume that someone will be able to get a 50 per cent. discount for having been a council house tenant for many years. I assume that that will apply even if someone buys an empty house which is the best in the street and in which he has never lived. That is not giving people the right to buy their own council house. That is the right to buy someone else's house. There is bound to be someone on the housing waiting list who needs that house and who has every moral right to it. There will be uproar when the best houses in the street are sold, time and time again, at a huge discount to people who haw; never lived in them. The reality of the sale of council houses, as we who work and live in our communities know, is that the best houses on the edge of the estates, the best houses at the end of the street and at the end of the cul-de-sacs, will be sold. There will be uproar in those communities when homeless people are told that they cannot have a house and someone who already has a nice house is able to take his pick of available houses at a 50 per cent. discount. That is not subsidising need. That   is subsidising privilege. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify whether the discount will relate to the length of tenancy of a tenant rather than to the tenancy of a specific house. Clearly, that will be extremely important. My constituents have very little to gain from these divisive policies. I hope that Ministers, despite their election promises and pledges, will tell people that the comprehensive system is good. With respect to the Conservative Member who is shaking his head, I have not heard anyone on the Government Benches say that comprehensive schools are extremely good. I want Government supporters to tell my constituents that comprehensive schools are good and that council houses are good. If not, we shall create the feeling that council tenants and comprehensive school pupils are second-class citizens. I cannot believe that is the deliberate intention of the Government.
