gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech, although, obviously, since I sit on the Opposition Benches, I shall not put quite the same interpretation on today's events as did the hon. Member for Huddersfield, West (Mr. Dickens) in his maiden speech. I have the honour to represent the northern area of Manchester known as Blackley. It is a traditionally sound area with its people drawn from the professions and the artisan skills. As a new Member for part of Manchester, I am delighted to say that, although the Conservatives claimed many times during the election campaign and afterwards that the nation supported them, this proved not to be the case among Mancunians, who, with their good sense, stayed solid in support of the Labour Government and the Labour Party. A great deal of sterling work was put into the election campaign, and I know that the House will allow me to pay tribute to the workers in the Blackley constituency. In particular, I mention my agent, Mrs. Alison Kelly, a lady of great reputation in the Manchester area, and I pay tribute to the solid work which she did. I am much indebted to Mrs. Kelly for the support which I had during my campaign, just as I am indebted to the other workers who also contributed to such an outstanding victory in the general election. I feel that I should pay tribute also to the new Under-Secretary of State for Education and Science, the hon. Member for Brent, North (Dr. Boyson), because he chose to visit the constituency during my campaign. He is not someone really well thought of in education circles in Manchester, and he may well have contributed to my success. Perhaps, when we fight the next election campaign, the hon. Gentleman could be invited to come to my constituency on two occasions instead of one. I am sure that that would help us in Manchester, as I believe it did just recently. I pay tribute also to Paul Rose, my predecessor as Member for Blackley. When Paul Rose was elected as Member for Blackley in 1964, he was at that time the youngest Labour Member of Parliament. He enjoyed a fund of good will and respect among all right hon. and hon. Members. He took a stand on many vital issues, being well known for his positive attitudes on such questions as Rhodesia, Northern Ireland, racialism and Fascism. It was a sad day for Blackley when Paul Rose decided not to stand again, due to illness, and I know that the good wishes of all Mancunians will be extended to him, with a debt of gratitude for the vital work which he did and the contribution which he made to the life of the city of Manchester. I cannot pay the same glowing tributes to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his Budget as the hon. Member for Huddersfield, West felt able to do. As I see it, the rich will get richer and the poor will get poorer. There is no doubt about that. It is a fact of political life—I have pointed this out in many public speeches in the past—that the Conservatives fight elections not to do more but to do less, and the consequence is that they lower the quality of life. We see already what is in store through cuts in public expenditure. I think in particular of curtailment in local government, and I foresee dire consequences for many things which go to the standard and quality of life of our people. Having been a member of the Manchester city council for 17 years, I have gone through some of these episodes many times in the past when, at the direction of the central Government, cuts have been made in local government services and funds.   Immediately, there are grave consequences. Local government is labour-intensive, so the first natural consequence that comes to mind is an inevitable loss of jobs. Perhaps I may be permitted to quote the words of a former distinguished Member of the House, and a great friend of mine, Will Griffiths. He told me once of an occasion when he visited America. He said ""There is great wealth there, without doubt. People live in big houses, and there are three large cars to be seen outside almost anybody's front door, but if you look round the back there is a mass of garbage spilling over because local government money is not being spent to improve the quality of life"" It is that kind of order of priorities that we see when expenditure is curtailed. For a number of years I have been interested in education in my own city, and I noted during the election campaign that Conservatives talked about our standards of education not being high enough. Education also is labour-intensive, and I do not believe that standards of education will be improved when the instruction goes out to curtail expenditure. This is one area which will immediately suffer, and suffer seriously. We should remind ourselves also that local authorities programme their building schemes on a three-year cycle, and projects which were planned three years ago will now just be coming to fruition. If they are coming to fruition and the instruction goes out that no more money is to be spent, what will be the result? If local authorities are not to have the manpower to open new schools or welfare service establishments because they cannot afford the people to operate them, they cannot provide the services which people need. That is the logical conclusion that I forecast. We shall soon see unemployment soar. Any balanced and sensible Government should be thinking about creating more jobs, not fewer jobs. Will there be consultation with and protection for organised labour? The trade union movement has been saying for many years that we should be thinking about reducing the working week to 35 hours. Such a reduction would create more jobs. We pride ourselves on so-called efficiency, but often the result is a loss of jobs. The unemployed have to be fed and clothed. They still have to be provided for in society. However, we are told that they must be unemployed, and that is the consequence of the Budget. It is a Budget that will eat away the seedcorn of the nation's future. I can forecast only that we shall be heading for a grave disaster.
