gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful that you have called me, Madam Deputy Speaker, and, in rising for the first time in the House, I congratulate you on your new position. As you would expect, I extend those congratulations to my fellow west midlander, the new Speaker. In Wolverhampton, North-East many people were delighted at the appointment of Miss Betty Boothroyd to the Speaker's Chair and felt that it brought honour to the west midlands. I know that it is customary to pay regard to one's predecessors and it gives me considerable pleasure to remind the House of John Baird, who finished serving as a Member in 1964. I recall him visiting my boyhood home during his constituency duties. Later, when I was a young and active trade unionist, I remember the great pleasure of listening to John Baird on his public engagements. He was a great and considerable advocate of equality. I recall reading that, when asked about the honours list, he said, somewhat pithily: I joined the Labour party to make workers of Lords and not Lords of workers. That was a considerable statement at the time. Following John Baird came Renée Short, who had a distinguished parliamentary career, not least as Chair of the Select Committee on Social Services, which produced a number of important reports. One report, with a touch of déjá vu, dealt with the hours of junior doctors, and another seminal one covered maternity services in this country. That report is still widely quoted and much respected, and Renée's work on it will be long remembered. My immediate predecessor, Mrs. Hicks, will be recalled more for what happened to the people of Wolverhampton, North-East during her term in the House than for what she did. However, I know that she had a sincere understanding of her constituents' needs and that she worked hard during her time in the House to ensure that those needs were met However, it is for what happened during her tenure, particularly the unremitting increase in the number of unemployed in Wolverhampton, North-East, for which Mrs. Hicks will be recalled. On average, 30 people were chasing every vacancy. In the past two years in Wolverhampton, between 50 and 60 unemployed folk have been chasing every vacancy. In the same period, the social security system was changed. It is no coincidence that there was a tremendous increase in the crime rate at the same time as the young, long-term unemployed experienced such difficulties in finding remunerative work. Those factors are connected, although other considerations must be taken into account. In the context of changes in the benefit system, many people may share my concern that there has been a poor take-up among elderly people of the benefits available to them. Many of them fear that, if they go to the benefit office for support or for a grant, they will end up with a loan that they cannot possibly repay. I ask hon. Members to recognise that that particular aspect of the benefit system is bound to fail because it does not take into account the great fears that many pensioners have. They share similar fears to their parents who, in the 1930s, were worried about the workhouse and the debtors' gaol. Pensioners still hold such fears, and if the benefit system does not take proper account of them it is no surprise if the take-up of benefit by elderly people is not particularly high. In my constituency, great distress was caused to a partially sighted man of 70 years who lost what little money he had to take him through a particular week, and faced a weekend with no food in his flat. He attempted to sell bits and pieces of his belongings to make ends meet before his next benefit cheque arrived, but failed to do so. He went to the local benefit office and was offered a loan of £10, but he refused to accept it because he felt that he would be unable to pay it back as his income for the following week would be exactly the same and there was never anything left to spare. We do not want such cases to arise in Great Britain and I urge that benefit officers should be told that grants rather than loans should be given to pensioners in almost every case when an emergency occurs. The period in which my predecessor, Mrs. Hicks, was in the House was marked by a local authority housing waiting list which grew to its highest level for 25 years. Of course, there are some social reasons for that—such as the unfortunate breakdown of marriages and the number of young people pursuing tenancies in their own right. However, at the heart of the growing waiting list problem lies the fact that local authorities have not been able to   build for need. When that is combined with the fact that many young people starting out fear unemployment and do not take the plunge into buying a house, it has led to considerable housing difficulties in Wolverhampton and elsewhere in the country. Those difficulties are rooted in the fact that local authorities are unable to build for general needs. Many couples face frustration in their hunt for decent housing. I do not want to witness the tragedy of little children spending their formative years in high-rise flats and five-storey walk-ups. Councils should be able to build for general need so that every young couple has an opportunity to rent or buy property at a price that they can afford and children have an opportunity to play in gardens, as is their absolute right. It has been my intention that the thread running through my speech should be related to employment—the wealth that it creates and the misery that the lack of it causes. One of the growth areas for employment in recent years has been the worker co-operative movement, in which I have been proud to play some part. At the same time, mainline co-operative societies have faced strong competition, but they have met it by merging and growing. Unfortunately, the tax position of those societies has worsened since 1984 so that the growth in their profits has been overtaken by the growth in their tax burden. I am sure that that was not the intention, but as the societies have grown and amalgamated to face the competition, they have lost the benefit of the small firms remission of corporation tax. I urge the Government to consider that with some sympathy because the first priority of co-operative societies is not profit maximisation: they depend on retained profits and borrowing to expand and to meet the needs of the shopping public. I believe that they should be encouraged, rather than discouraged as they have been by the loss of the remission. The reasons that remission was given to co-operative societies are still valid today as co-operatives have an important part to play in the development of employment in our communities. Statistics show that, in 1990–91, such societies paid a much greater rate in tax than they earned in profits. That matter should be addressed by the House.
