gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I ask for the indulgence which this House traditionally extends to those who address it for the first time? I am conscious that I am the fifth Member of this Committee to ask for this indulgence in the space of about 24 hours, and I have promised that I will do my best not to trespass on its patience for too long. May I first add my small voice to the chorus of congratulations that has been won by my right hon. and learned Friend for the extremely lucid survey he gave on Wednesday of last week? The picture he drew was one of solid achievement, and one on which the people of this country can look with pride. It is a picture which reflects the greatest credit on my right hon. and learned Friend and his colleagues no less than on the working population of this country. In stressing, as he did, the efforts that we still have to make, he did nothing to minimise the distance we have already travelled in the direction of economic independence, particularly during the year under review. Yesterday my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade enlarged upon the steps we must take in order to meet the paramount need of the coming year, which is to increase our exports to, and achieve a balance of trade with, the North American Continent. I am sure that we shall get the fullest response from the workers in the same way as in the past year. We shall get that response because the workers today have a very lively understanding of the country's economic position. They have that understanding largely because of the intelligent publicity campaigns that my right hon. and learned Friend has initiated and also of the Government's public relations programme generally. Today, as a result, the workers have a feeling that in helping the Government—their Government—they are helping themselves. That is a new and rather significant feature in this country. I should like to turn now to the Chancellor's taxation proposals for the coming year. I realise at once, as I think the  country realises, that no major concessions could have been expected this year. If I venture to criticise one or two specific points, I do so realising that the overall picture could not have been very different. The Budget has been called, amongst other names, a ""standstill Budget."" I do not think it is that. I rather wish that it had been, because the Budget has caused widespread disappointment amongst the less fortunate of our people. It has produced that disappointment because it does nothing to reduce the cost of living. It is only now that some forms of rationing have been abolished and goods in greater variety are on the shelves in the shops, and perhaps beyond the power of the purse to buy, that the cost of living is really brought into sharp relief. It is especially unfortunate that in this Budget a reduction in the price of beer should have been offset by a rise in basic food prices. I know that my right hon. and learned Friend has made a most convincing case for both these changes, and I am sure it was not his intention that they should have been equated in any way. Nevertheless, that is how they are regarded in the home, simply because they are the only two Budget changes which directly affect the home. Despite what was said by my hon. Friend the Member for Coatbridge (Mrs. Mann), I think those English housewives will be fortunate and few who get 1s. 6d. a week more housekeeping money because ""the old man"" has a penny off the pint. Many sections of our community find the present cost of living really oppressive. I am thinking of those living on minimum wage standards and small fixed incomes. All our minds fly immediately to the old age pensioner. These people had been led to hope for some concession, for some remission, perhaps of Purchase Tax, during the weeks before the Budget. They were led to that hope because that sort of prophecy was scattered around the pages of the national Press during those weeks. I do not suggest that the Press deliberately engendered false hopes for political ends, nor do I want to suggest that their freedom to comment or to prophesy should be in any way curtailed. It is a very difficult problem. I do not know quite what the Government could do in the way of countering this sort of propaganda before it does harm. I think that all one can ask is   for a rather more responsible attitude on the part of the Press in future. My right hon. and learned Friend told us in his Budget speech that there is not much further immediate possibility of redistribution of national income by way of taxation. I hope that the operative word here is ""immediately,"" because I do not believe that the Government's deliberate policy—and a very desirable policy it is—of lopping off the extremes of wealth and poverty, has gone nearly far enough yet. I should like in this connection to support the suggestion made on the first day of this Debate by my hon. Friend the Member for Gravesend (Sir R. Acland) and to ask for some sort of investigation into the mysteriously high standard of living still enjoyed by so many fortunate citizens of this country. There are too many of these persons who seem comparatively unaffected by the so-called crushing burden of taxation on the higher income groups. Hon. Members need nothing more than the evidence of their own eyes in places like Bond Street and in the more luxurious restaurants to see what is going on. It may be said that those people are living on capital gains. For my part, I do not think capital gains are markedly different in many cases from untaxed income. Somewhere there is a considerable pool of taxable wealth in which, if only my right hon. and learned Friend can locate it and drain it off in the public interest, he might find a little more margin for the redistribution of national income. I support also the constructive suggestion made yesterday by my hon. Friend the Member for Sowerby (Mr. Houghton). He spoke with far more authority than I can, but I am sure that if the intensive survey he envisaged were carried out and, if successful, were extended, the Chancellor would be surprised at the windfall that might result for the Exchequer when all those people who should already be within the net of Schedule D are finally drawn into it. Now I turn to the concessions that the Chancellor was able to make in his Budget. First, there is the initial wear and tear allowance, about which the hon. and gallant Member for Central Glasgow (Colonel Hutchison) was speaking. The doubling of this allowance from 20 to  40 per cent. will cost the Exchequer £75 million in a full year. I think both sides of the Committee agree that it is necessary that industry should be able to renew and re-equip its plant in order to maintain its place in the export markets of the world. But while I was pondering over this matter, I turned to the White Paper on National Income and Expenditure, to Table 6, which is entitled ""Company Profits and Dividends."" Under the heading ""Additions to free reserves,"" which I take to be undistributed profits, I notice that these have been increasing at a rate of roughly £120 million a year—that is, the additions have been increasing—and that in 1948 they reached a figure of no less than £545 million. Might there not be sufficient margin here to finance this re-equipment? I know that the strongest possible pressure has been brought to bear on this matter from all sides of the industrial field from industrialists themselves, but this cannot be the explanation, because we also know that few men experience more obvious enjoyment in resisting pressure than my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor. He must have been satisfied that this added incentive was necessary, and I hope he was right. If it does, in fact, increase and speed up re-equipment the concession will be justified. The other concession I would mention is one which I do not think has been mentioned so far in this Debate. It is the concession of half a million pounds in a full year to Lloyds' underwriters, who are not a very hard-pressed section of the community. Hon. Members may think this is not a large sum, but I would remind the Committee that it is going to a comparatively small number of men and that they include some of the richest men in the country. For a dozen or so years I worked among Lloyds' underwriters and the speech of my right hon. and learned Friend was the first occasion on which I had ever heard it suggested that Lloyds' existing collective reserves were not ample to meet all future possible emergencies. There may be a good case for an adjustment here in normal times, but I deplore what seems to me a gift of half a million pounds of Surtax to a handful of business men, in a Budget which calls on the housewife to dig deeper in her pocket when she goes out shopping. I wish to conclude with a more general observation. Many hon. and right hon. Members opposite, in the course of their speeches, have implied, and some have stated, that the lesson of this Budget is that the country cannot afford, or soon will be unable to afford, social services at their present level. I suggest that that completely misses the lesson of the Budget. The lesson is that the people of this country cannot indefinitely afford social security and Defence expenditure at or above its present level. Since neither I nor, I think, any of my hon. Friends would contemplate for a moment any cuts in the scheme of social security which the Government have brought into being since 1945, I think we can only look to Defence as the field where, given certain conditions, substantial reductions of Government expenditure could be made in the future. Few hon. Members would deny that the expenditure of £763 million on Defence, in the uneasy state of the world today, is a condition of our security. At the same time, the only way in which this crippling burden can be eased lies in reducing the barriers of mutual suspicion and fear that divide the world. It is no good saying we have tried and failed in the past. We must continue to try. It is something we cannot do alone; I fully realise that. I know we must seek good will in quarters where good will is singularly little in evidence at this moment, but at the same time I think the lesson of the Budget is one primarily for my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary. What is the alternative? I read that America, our senior partner in the Atlantic Pact, has just authorised £3,300 million on Defence for the coming year—more than 80 per cent. of our total Budget. That is setting a pace which we can only maintain in this country at the expense of damaging intolerably, and perhaps permanently, the standard of living of our people. I think the Foreign Secretary must redouble his efforts, if necessary using new and unorthodox methods, forgetting past rebuffs, to achieve that international understanding which the people of this country and, I think, of all countries, anxiously await. I think it is no contribution towards building a stable world, or a lasting peace, for Ministers and right hon. Gentlemen  opposite to go around, both here and abroad, making speeches and saying that war is not inevitable. Let us rather hear them say, ""We shall not rest until we have brought about conditions in which war is unthinkable."" Between those two attitudes of mind there is a great difference of emphasis. It could be the difference between fear and courage.
