gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I ask for its indulgence, knowing that the generosity extended by the House to new Members will be accorded to me. I hope that after I have spoken I shall not find myself in the position referred to by the hon. Member for Feltham (Mr. Hunter), who seemed to be rather concerned about a ""bouncing"" cheque, and that at the end of the month I shall not receive a cheque which is made of rubber. I start by paying a tribute to my predecessor who was Member of Parliament for Rutland and Stamford for many years. It would be invidious for me to try to say anything about his service in the House. Right hon. and hon. Members knew him. He deserves, as does any hon. Member who has served for so many years, the thanks of those both inside and outside the House. My constituency confers two distinctions upon its Member of Parliament. The distinctions have nothing to do with the Member. First, any Member for Rutland and Stamford represents the smallest county in England, though not the smallest county in the United Kingdom.  He represents also the most beautiful, the most hunted and the most envied county for a take-over bid. I know that the county will always remain the most beautiful. I hope that it will always remain the most hunted and that it will continue to escape a take-over bid. Also, in representing Stamford, it would probably be fair to say that I represent the most beautiful ""jam-up"" on the roads in the United Kingdom, and I am glad to know that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport intends very shortly to put that right. There is a second distinction. When I am in the middle of my constituency I am naturally surrounded by it, but when I am in this House I am also surrounded by my constituency, for this building is made of Clipsham stone. Supplies of this stone will very soon run out. The quarries are now almost at their last lap, and my noble Friend the Minister of Works might think it worth while to survey the county to see whether there is more stone; and he might also take steps to preserve what stocks there are lest in decades to come this House should find there were no further supplies for the maintenance of the facade. It is perhaps fortunate that I have been able to say something about my constituency because so much that I wanted to say about the Bill has already been said. However, if I repeat what has been said, I hope that the House will forgive me. I have not always had a connection with the broad acres that we find in Rutland and in Lincolnshire. I know well the confined areas of the industrial North and the begrimed environment to be found there. Like many, I have for some years picked up my wages in cash. I remember that when I first began to get them I was rather puzzled because they were split into wages and offtakes and it often occurred to me that if they paid me the offtakes and kept the wages I would be much better off. Again as an aircraftman, I often had to queue up on pay parade, and I never thought that the bullion we received quite justified the ""bull"" that was involved in getting it. Therefore, if for no other reason, this Bill appeals to me because I think that in due course it will help to get rid of the queue for pay. The Bill may give advantages to the employer but there are also a great many   advantages to be gained by employees and by the country as a whole. I am very glad to know that after all this considerable time the National Joint Advisory Council has finally decided to support this Measure. In listening to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Blyth (Mr. Robens) I was a little concerned to know whether or not he intended to support it. I had read his comments in the previous debate, and had gathered that he was in favour, after all, of payment by cheque. He and others representing the trade union movement should remember that this is a permissive Measure. Because it is a permissive Measure it must also be a persuasive Measure. We believe, as does the right hon. Gentleman, that no worker should be paid by cheque who wants to be paid in cash. I go with him when he says that men should not be made to do that, even though they are ill or working away. Equally, nobody should be made to be paid in cash who wishes to be paid by cheque. I hope that in this matter the rights of the individual will be maintained. It is so easy for the head office of a trade union to try to impose a decision; just as easy as it is—and we have heard quite a bit about this from the other side—for an employer to try to arrange things. At the Trades Union Congress—I think last year—Sir Thomas Williamson made rather an interesting comment which I should like to quote. Talking about payment by cheque he said: We shall, of course, insist that in any establishment organised labour through the appropriate unions shall have negotiations and consultations as to whether or not, in the first place, this system shall be introduced at all. I hope that there will not be any interference from the top with the worker who wants to be paid by cheque. It is interesting to note that in this Bill we are to have, at the request of the trade unions, the principle of contracting in. That is an interesting deviation from what exists in other directions where we have the principle of contracting out. Consultation between managements and trade unions there must be on this question, but it must be at a workshop floor level between local managements and the local men whom they know. A great deal has been said about the great scope that this Measure will give to the banks. I do not want to pursue that subject—it has been mentioned by many hon. Members—but I am sure that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would agree that if he could have a very small increase in savings by a very large number of people who suddenly started to pay into the banks he would find the below-the-line situation in his Budget considerably improved. My right hon. Friend will have to look very carefully at the position of the trustee savings banks. Many workers are accustomed to using those banks, and in order to encourage them to take full advantage of the provisions of this Bill, the regulations governing trustee savings banks may have to be changed. For example, they cannot at present issue cheques. This might be looked at. I am sorry that when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Blyth referred to the Post Office Savings Bank he was mistaken in the amount that can now be withdrawn on demand. He has probably forgotten that since the Conservatives have been in office there has been a great increase in the standard of living of the ordinary worker, who is now getting much more money these days. It is true that when the party opposite was in power one could withdraw only £3 on demand from the Post Office, but the amount is now £10. However, the Chancellor of the Exchequer may have to look at this again, because even £10 is not enough. A worker's wages may be between £10 and £15, or even £20 a week. He cannot draw out until he puts in, and he would presumably want to take out a very large proportion of his wages. I am pleased at the prospect of more people taking their wages by cheque, as I think that it will create considerable social change. This Bill has been described today as a modest Measure. That is true, but it may represent that cloud no bigger than a man's hand in the sky telling of many changes that are to come—small things that eventually will gather momentum. The office worker and the manual worker have for so long had a division between them. There is a quite useless   and unnecessary snobbery that exists here. The office worker on a machine is paid by cheque; the factory worker on a machine is paid in cash. The office worker gets the impression that there is something to his great advantage in this. Then, from this there flows a whole rigmarole of divisions and differences—lying-on time for the manual worker but not for the office worker, holidays after six months for the office worker, but not for the manual worker; overalls provided for the one but not for the other; and contracts of service for the one and not for the other. Many of these artificial barriers will begin to go when this Bill becomes an Act, and it is time they did. Apart from containing many industrial workers, my constituency also has many farming people in the villages. It has been said that they will have great difficulty in being able to cash their cheques, and my right hon. Friend the Minister of Labour, in his opening speech, said something about the difficulties of communication in the countryside a hundred or so years ago. These difficulties of communication in the countryside are becoming very bad today; and if British Railways go on closing more lines, they will get even worse. When this Bill is passed, not only will the banks have to improve their services in the countryside but so will the transport undertakings, and I hope that this Measure will encourage them to do so. Finally, I think the Government have shown a very nice sense of timing in bringing forward this Bill. Perhaps they think—I do not know—that there is a great danger that, with the introduction of betting shops, the worker will be in danger of putting all his wages on a runner in the 2.30 next day. Therefore, they have produced this Bill so that he can be paid by cheque. The worker will then be in no danger of getting into trouble when he goes home for having deposited his wages in the wrong direction. In the near future, we may see the manual worker and the office worker together going into the banks and depositing their wages, and then, perhaps, going into the betting shop and laying their bets. Moderation in both must be to  the social good. If such moderation in both is achieved and if people in our affluent industrial areas help the Chancellor of the Exchequer to save While helping the Home Secretary to work out his Betting and Gaming Bill, I think that both the Government will be glad to have brought in this Bill and my hon. Friend the Member for Crosby (Mr. Page), who first inspired it, will be glad that he has been successful.
