gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like the previous three speakers, I crave the indulgence of the Committee for my maiden speech. It is not my intention to follow the hon. Member for Bebington (Mr. Howe) into the arguments on the justification or not of the means test, because this is supposed to be a non-controversial contribution. I cannot claim to bring to the Committee or to the House of Commons any great high academic qualifications. I was one of those who left school at 14½ and had to make my own way in the world. Equally, I cannot claim to have had the experience of working in a scientifically-based industry. For the last nine years, I have been with the National Health Service and for the previous seventeen years with the trade union movement, neither of which can really claim to be scientifically based. But I have the honour and distinction of representing Huddersfield, West, and my pleasure at representing that constituency is shared by my constituents in the fact that it is the birthplace of my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister. The people of Huddersfield are very proud of the fact that on the day that the Prime Minister was elected, Huddersfield, for the first time in its history, had two Labour Members of Parliament. Indeed, between 1945 and 1950 my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Defence for the Royal Navy served Huddersfield alone, and since 1951 he has made a wonderful contribution on behalf of Huddersfield, East. It is true, however, that during the last 14 years my constituency has been represented by the former Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. Donald Wade, and I should like to take this opportunity of asking the House to record in its journals its appreciation of the work that he did in this House and in its various committees during the time that he served here, and to express the thanks of his constituents of Huddersfield, West for the way in which he attended to their problems. I hope that those remarks of mine will not for a moment be construed as an attempt on my part to fly a kite for any kind of Liberal-Labour affiance. I have always believed that the differences as divide the Labour Party from the Conservative Party are the same differences that divide the Labour Party from the Liberal Party. We are fundamentally different. But this in no way prevents the Liberal Party from entering into alliances of its own. During the last 14 years up to 15th October the Conservative Party, by standing down, allowed the former Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party to retain his seat. It is unique that no Conservative has had the opportunity of representing Huddersfield, West since 1929. In that year a former Member of this House, a respected temperance Member, Jimmy Hudson, was elected. It was said of Jimmy Hudson that his agent Arthur Gardiner used to say to him at election times, ""If you will do the chapels and churches I will do the clubs and pubs,"" and this arrangement seemed to work very well. It has also been said—and it has certainly been true during the last 40 years—that whenever the Conservatives fight in Huddersfield the Labour Party wins, and it is my earnest hope that the Conservatives will continue to fight in that constituency for the next 40 years. The main industries in my constituency are chemicals, engineering and textiles. En particular, engineering and textiles have at one time or another felt the chill winds of economic depression—so much so that in 1931 the firm of John Crowther & Sons, led by Stoner Crowther, introduced a gimmick in the West Riding, when Stoner Crowther accepted a challenge by the last Sir Malcolm Campbell to make a suit in record time. The story is—and it is quite true—that 12 sheep were gathered in the mill yard together with expert Yorkshire Dalesmen. The  sheep were sheared, the cloth was woven, dyed and made up into a suit in two hours and nine minutes. That occasion has a connection with this House, because the following day that suit was worn by yet another respected Member, the Right Hon. Jimmy Thomas, as a boost to British Industry. Today that firm of John Crowther & Sons is playing a very large part in the export trade of this country and it is turning out goods that are sold in practically every country in the world. It is unfortunate that in order to meet the competition that it faces from Italy and elsewhere, this firm is compelled to import machinery from abroad because it cannot obtain that machinery in Britain. One of these machines is a cloth polishing machine known as the Pol-Rotor machine. It is most unfortunate that it should be necessary for that firm to have to pay the import surcharge on a machine that it would like to obtain in England but which the British machine industry cannot produce. I should like my right hon. Friend to consider whether anything can be done about this. I should like briefly to refer to a couple of the other Budget proposals. Certainly pensions had to be increased. As a Socialist, I have always believed that that which was morally right must he politically right, and it was obviously morally right that pensions should be increased. But I implore the Chancellor to find some way of ensuring that pensioners get the increase before Christmas. It must be borne in mind that if the present rate of pension is continued until the end of March 10,000 or 12,000 old-age pensioners will have died before the increase comes through and I, therefore, hope that something can be done to make sure that they get the increase for Christmas. Let it not be forgotten that even with this increase they will still not be privileged members of this affluent society. Even £4 a week is not a lot in our present-day society, though I know that it will help many people in Huddersfield. I checked with my local Assistance Board and found that 65 per cent. of all the National Assistance payments made in the Borough of Huddersfield went to old-age pensioners to help them   make ends meet. Hon. Members opposite must not resist these proposals or find reasons for delaying them, for they are essential. Like my hon. Friend the Member for Halifax (Dr. Summerskill), I welcome the removal of the prescription charges. No one should have to put his hand into his pocket to decide whether he can afford to have medicine. It is right and proper that these charges should go. It is unfortunate that the 2s. increase on the National Insurance stamp will be an extra burden on many people who have a take-home pay of less than £10 a week. As a local branch official of the National Union of Public Employees, I know that many people in the Health Service have a very low rate of pay. I wish we could find some way round this, perhaps by extending the capital gains levy and by introducing it at an early date. I thank the House for having listened to me. It has always been my policy, as a member of the Labour Party and as a worker for Socialism, to try to ensure that the producers of wealth obtain a fair share of the wealth which they produce. I believe that the only way in which we can ensure this is by having a Labour Government that is dedicated to that end. I have tried not to be controversial, but after 27 years in the trade union and Labour movements I find it very difficult and I hope the House will forgive and understand if I have been controversial.
