gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great humility to make my maiden speech as Member for Hastings. At the same time I wish to offer my congratulations to the hon. Member for East Stirlingshire (Mr. Douglas) on the fluency and ease with which he made his maiden speech. I hope that we shall hear him on many future occasions in this House. He spoke with knowledge of industry since he was an engineering apprentice, as I once was. It was a pleasure to hear him. First I wish to pay a tribute to my predecessor Sir Neil Cooper-Key, a man of great character and ability who served in this House for 25 years. I know that his friends on both sides of the House will join me in wishing that he will still be able to give his services in some other form to our nation. The County Borough of Hastings, which I have the privilege to represent, is a town whose traditional trade over the last century has been that of tourism. As our postal franking clerks say, we have been ""Popular with visitors since 1066"". But over the last 20 years as people have gone abroad for their holidays the pattern of tourism has changed. At the same time more and more people have retired to our community into the sunshine. In fact, half the electorate is over 65. I am happy to say that the centenarians are commonplace in our town. These changes in themselves have brought problems and I should like to deal with them in my remarks this evening. Normally the whole of the South-East is regarded as a wealthy area. Unfortunately this is not true of Hastings or other South-East towns around it. In terms of selective employment tax we had all the redeployment that was hoped for from the service industries, but it went into unemployment. There were no other jobs to which people could go. In our town over the last few years 1,000 people have been out of work. The average wage is only £15 per week. This is nothing like enough to face up to the problems of inflation that have beset us all. When we tried to get help from the last Government we were met with the sort of reply we had from the former Secretary   of State for Education and Science when we sought to get permission to rebuild one primary school, Hollister Junior School, which is 100 years old. The only reply we had was, ""We do not know when it can ever be rebuilt."" We have a manual telephone exchange in Hastings which will not be replaced until 1973. This is hardly the type of treatment for the South-East in the latter part of the twentieth century. We have been deluged with social studies and economic advice. Over the last five or six years we have had everything short of actual help. My main suggestion is to hope that my right hon. Friend will examine the traditional definition of regional development areas to accommodate the development needs of coastal towns like Hastings. They need aid as problem points within the rich South-East area, not on a permanent basis but on a transitory basis over, say, three or five years. They need sufficient economic resources injected into the economy to enable them to become self-sustaining and to give them growth potential. This type of aid could be of two forms. First, local assistance tailored to the particular problems of a selected town. Secondly, area assistance tailored to the general problems of the total area's development progress. These two types of aid should be simultaneous and part of a strategic programme, partnering Government and industry. I welcome the proposals to bring business men and industrialists into Government Departments. This is an excellent way to develop the particular type of partnership envisaged in the Gracious Speech and it would help development areas of all kinds. From my 20 years' experience in technology, I know, as a technologist whose white heat was rather dampened by the Labour Party when in power, that these proposals have been welcomed by industry and business as indicative of a Government who at last know how to get on with the real problems of developing industry in the difficult regions. I welcome this, because at last we can bring together the spirit, the enterprise and the local knowledge which businessmen and industrialists can give. I should like to analyse a little further the two types of aid which I envisage could help the South-East coastal towns.  First is the local aid, the transitory aid over three to five years. It could be in the form of that now given to a development area—the economic incentives and the assistance that central Government resources can bring to the planning and promotion of economic growth, in other words, bringing to a community far more assistance and help than it could ever conjure up from its own local resources. I hope that we shall be thinking not only of new factories but of new schools and housing. At area level—here I am less optimistic about the South-East than was my hon. Friend the Member for Dartford (Mr. Trew)—we need a dramatic improvement in the infrastructure of communications. The South-East may be rich compared with the northern areas, but it is moving towards stagnation. In the next 10 years we like the rest of the country, will have 50 per cent. more vehicles on the roads, and our roads are archaic. They do not lead anywhere nationally and they follow no normal pattern of development which one would expect to see coming from either an area or a central Government. We have dribbles of motorways. Some motorways start and end at the most unexpected places. One has only to look at the M2 and the M20 as examples. What we need in the South-East, as part of the development assistance which would enhance those coastal towns and all the other small pockets which have been mentioned, are improvements such as a genuine spine motorway leading in fact from one place to another—namely, from London to the Channel ports. Whether or not we enter Europe, there is no question but that our trade with Europe is developing rapidly. It is not logical to accept that the area should have anything other than a sensible spine motorway system—not only to the ports but to the Channel tunnel. At the same time, I should like to see another motorway from those ports right along the South coast. If people are coming from the Continent, it will encourage tourists to enjoy the facilities all along the coast. We also need a motorway link right around London to wherever the third London Airport will be. With railways, the situation is grim, as many hon. Members from the South-East know. We have to put up with commuting standards which would be banned if we were animals. We have to suffer   these day after day and week after week: many people must suffer them all their lives. It is not sensible just to accept this as a condition which cannot be changed. Our railway freight services tend towards restriction. Only yesterday in my constituency we were told that the freight services are likely to be withdrawn without consultation. We have only just fought off—temporarily—the threat to close our main rail link with the Channel ports, and now another bolt from the blue comes upon us. Therefore, the type of aid needed in these South-East coastal towns may be totally different from that which is applicable in Scotland or the North. I believe that the local and area aid which I envisage for these towns could make their economies self-sustaining and could give them the growth potential which they simply cannot develop from their own resources. They must be seen to have this so as to induce modern industry and commerce to come to them and help them develop. The entrepreneur should be allowed to make his own judgment. If he makes a judgment to develop within those towns, that is the best way that those towns can get the development they need. We are looking not for a subsidised economy but for an opportunity to develop and get on. At the very least, we want to rejoin the progress, the pace and the prosperity that the rest of the area around us has. I thank the House for its courtesy in hearing me today, and I hope that I shall be able to make a further contribution in a later debate.
