gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the House in making my first speech in the House. My predecessor was Konni Zilliacus, who addressed this House and his constituents very frequently and often at great length. His maiden speech in 1945 lasted for 41 minutes, so hon. Members will not expect me to carry on at least one tradition today. Mr. Zilliacus spoke with particular emphasis on defence and foreign affairs and if I talk in the main about schools and streets and social serivces it is not because I disagreed with ""Zilli"" on the importance of foreign affairs. The establishment and maintenance of peace, with which he was so concerned, are to my mind of paramount importance and ""Zilli"" was right to use his knowledge and experience of European affairs and languages in expressing his opinions in this House and in the country. He was right to emphasise that our policy should be based on support for the United Nations and the strengthening of the United Nations. He was consistent in his view and his maiden speech and subsequent speeches can stand the test of time better than most. Gorton, the constituency which he represented for the last 12 years of his Parliamentary career, has recently had a   great deal of publicity. Some of the publicity, through television programmes and Press reports, has been inaccurate and undeserved, and I speak of only a few of those reports. But the suggestions in them than Gorton consists of row after row of Coronation Streets was inaccurate. Gorton has some fine housing estates and a sound sense of community. It is less cynical about politics and politicians than has been suggested most of the country is and, indeed, gave great support to both major parties and treated with disdain the opinions of opinion polls. There is a housing problem in Gorton, and a serious one, and this has not been helped by recent events in the delaying of the housing programme in Manchester. But, in a way, Gorton can give hope to towns which have been under discussion this week and whose basic industries are in decline. The districts which form the constituency—Audenshaw, Denton and Gorton—had, as their industrial base, coal mining, cotton, batting and the manufacture and repair of steam locomotives. Now, all the coal mines have gone; the cotton mills have closed and been demolished; hatting is concentrating in fewer factories and the locomotive works have been demolished; the motor car industry has come and gone. But in this waste are a large number of specialist engineering firms of wide variety. There is a great variety of other trades, in batteries and everything from shirts to stationery. In one of the hat works closed in the last 18 months, there are now eight specialist firms expanding rapidly. An interesting feature, and one which will bring hope to other towns, is that the river bank which forms the boundary on one side of the constituency is nowadays a green belt and is largely a pleasant wooded area. This was the 19th century industrial belt, where there were coal mines, cotton mills and railways. If this process can be hastened in other towns it will be of benefit. I want to thank the hon. Member for Chelmsford (Mr. St. John-Stevas) for initiating this debate. What some of my former pupils will think when they hear that my maiden speech was on the subject of liberty I do not know, but it will be interesting. Although I do not agree with the hon. Gentleman, I thank him for giving me this opportunity. As I see it, liberty in modern society is a question of balance. In a democracy, there is bound to be conflict between individual liberty and social obligations. Most of the progressive measures in this country have been at the expense of somebody's liberty. Even Magna Carta interfered with one person's liberty and prevented him from doing the things he had done previously. Most actions of national and local government to improve, for example, health or education, have been called infringements of liberty when they have been proposed, whether they have been the raising of the school-leaving age to 12 or 14 or 16, the prevention of the employment of young children, the pasteurisation of milk or the fluoridation of water. Even the establishment of the National Health Service was denounced as an interference with liberty. At local level, anyone who has worked, as I have, as chairman of a town planning committee will know that one can enter the job with high ideals of what one can do for one's town and end by being described as a dictator. All this does not mean that we should not be watchful of liberty. We should—and one of the most serious aspects of the infringement of liberty at the moment is in racial discrimination. In this respect the Government are to be congratulated on their legislation, both past and to come, which endeavours to do what has not been achieved voluntarily—to help to remove discrimination on grounds of race or colour. We have to consider the right to demonstrate. We from Manchester remember Peterloo and the people who were cut down for demonstrating for their right to vote. Demonstrations in this country recently have given rise to concern about the justice which some of the demonstrators have received. There is the right of free speech and there is the right to question. The other night I listened to students of Imperial College, London, and young people of all political parties asked me to do all I could about the efforts which they were making to hear a point of view different from that of the Government. They wanted to invite members of the N.L.F.—from South Vietnam, not South Arabia, which is now respectable—to this country to hear them and question them. The students   had applied to the Home Office for visas for them and had been refused. This is a mistake. Our young and old people should have the opportunity to hear points of view different from ours and to have the opportunity to question them. There is one group about whom I worry most. It is the group with less liberty than the rest of us, because it does not know its own rights. It consists of people who are confused and bewildered in our complicated society, who do not know about claiming for Income Tax allowances, who do not know that their social security benefits are available and who do not even know when their children are entitled to free dinners, because the local authorities do not tell them the facts. They are the people who need help. We should ask ourselves whether our education system is training people, particularly the slower learning children, in their rights and duties in this complicated system of ours. The danger is not so much of a tyrannical Government as a failure to communicate where communication is difficult. Perhaps most important in this are those people whose jobs bring them into contact with the public, difficult jobs, like being a policeman or a bus guard or a counter clerk in a town hall or a Ministry Department. A great deal depends on their not only dealing with, but helping people. I know what difficulties they have. Anyone who has seen a housing officer trying to cope with inquiries will know what difficulties he gets. It is at these points of contact that many of the difficulties crop up. An increase in the Civil Service is not necessarily bad if we employ people who treat others with humanity. It is necessary to know our own rights and to respect those of others. I cannot support the Motion's accusation of tyranny. It is significant that the National Council for Civil Liberties in its 1967 Report refers to the more enlightened régime at the Home Office. Enlightened leadership and tyranny do not go together. I thank the House for its courteous and tolerant hearing.
