gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In asking the indulgence of the House for a maiden speech, I am very conscious of the difficulty with which I am faced in contributing in an uncontroversial manner to a Debate on a Motion of Censure. Perhaps my best chance of succeeding will be if I invite the House for a few minutes to consider not so much the present administrative discontents as the general condemnation which is contained in the Motion of the whole broad sweep of the Government's policy and particularly their policy of nationalisation. It is alleged against the Government that they are engaged in bringing about a fundamental change in our economic relations; that they are doing it to gratify Socialist theory and not to meet any urgent needs, and that because they are doing that, they are necessarily neglecting the real job which has to be done. With the first of those allegations I do not feel inclined to quarrel. I think it may well be that this policy represents fundamental change. I think the blindest of us is bound to realise that fundamental technical change has been taking place, at a great and increasing speed, all over the world for many years past, and that process is still going on. When great technical changes of that kind have taken place in the past, they have always had to be accompanied and matched by major political and economic adjustments in any country which wished to survive and retain its greatness. I was, therefore, not in any way dismayed when I read the other day, in what may fairly be termed a Conservative newspaper, that what the Government are doing is to bring about the greatest change which has occurred in our history since the dissolution of the monasteries. That was, of course, intended as condemnation, but it seems to me that it is quite a fair analogy, and one of which we need not be in any way afraid. What exactly is this change about which we talk? It has, I think, two main aspects today. The first, if I may be forgiven by the hon. and gallant Member for North Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Sir C. Headlam)—who has perhaps fortu-  nately left the House—for prating about planned economy—
