gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Coming here from the North-East, I wish, first, to thank hon. Members on both sides who have welcomed me. In particular, I thank the hon. Gentleman opposite who offered me a regular pair after the General Election. I am only too happy to think that hon. Members opposite feel that the future of the Labour Government is so secure. I thank those hon. and right hon. Members who worked so hard to get me here, my hon. and right hon. Friends and, especially, hon. and right hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite. If only they had stayed in Hull, North, a little longer, had spoken a little more and had worked a little harder, I might have had a decent majority. I am particularly fortunate in following Mr. Henry Solomons as Member for Hull, North. I speak here from personal knowledge as a friend for not only did I follow him to the House but I voted to send him here in October, 1964. In that short time, despite being dogged by ill health, which was not helped by the rigorous disciplines of the first Session of this Parliament, Henry Solomons won the respect and admiration of his constituents by his untiring efforts on their behalf.  People whom I meet and letters in my post speak an eloquent tribute to the work which he did on behalf of the electorate of Hull, North. My constituency is situated in a proud and famous city, famous for, and proud of, its rôle in the constitutional and political history of our nation. In 1642, to preserve the political liberties of the subject and the rights and privileges of this House, it slammed its gates in the face of King Charles. In 1964, because it realised that political liberty can be freely exercised only against a background of social security, it returned three Members to these benches. The theme throughout my by-election campaign was the need to organise the nation's resources to achieve social justice and the proper recognition of the dignity of the individual and the sanctity of family life. To achieve these ends, it is necessary to organise the resources of our country, to use them to pull down the slums, to build schools and hospitals and to extend and improve the whole range of our social and welfare benefits. In the election campaign, as we on this side—hon. Members opposite did the same—trudged in the snowstorms the grim streets of parts of my constituency, its sprawling slums, its many terraces of damp overcrowded houses, houses without internal sanitation and many with only an outside tap, we saw the evils of an early industrial unplanned England, evils which hon. Members opposite were not only prepared to tolerate but to accentuate by the passing of the 1957 Rent Act, which allowed Rachmanism to develop. No wonder that the people of West Central Ward, Paragon Ward, Park Ward, and Botanic Ward were, apparently, without hope. But they were not, in fact, without hope, for in another part of my constituency where, apparently, the television cameras and the newspaper reporters did not penetrate, there could have been seen the Orchard Park development where the progressive Labour Council is building a fine new estate of houses, of good schools, of old people's homes, and of modern welfare centres. It is a new development of which any council could be proud. But there is a tale to be told about this estate. When Hull Corporation first negotiated to buy the land, it was to cost approximately £70,000. When right   hon. and hon. Members opposite were in Government and, eventually, gave the corporation permission to buy, the 1959 Act had been passed and the land cost not £70,000 but £500,000. This is why I was particularly proud, on the day when I first took my seat in the House, that I went through the Division Lobby to vote for the Second Reading of the Land Commission Bill. Hon Members opposite talk eloquently of turning pensions over to private enterprise, and there is a positive fear in many parts of the country that they intend to do the same with the National Health Service. In the autumn of last year, a doctor in my constituency, because of the frustration he felt after years of neglect of general practice when the Opposition were in power, tried to establish a private scheme. We costed it on the basis of the doctor's proposed charges and the cost of drugs as supplied to the National Health Service. We then compared those costs with the direct cost of the National Health Service to the ordinary person, and we circulated the results of our calculations in a leaflet distributed among my constituents on behalf of our former Member. We prepared this leaflet in question and answer form, and some of the questions and answers are most revealing. First, under the heading, Cost of private medicine outside the Health Service for a family with two children there are these questions and answers: Q. What will it cost if we do not visit the doctor during the year? A. 9s. a week. Q. What does the present National Health Service cost? A. 3s. 4d. a week if you pay a National Insurance stamp.… Q. What will be the cost if the doctor pays two visits to one of my children? A. Between 10s. and £1. Q. What is the cost under the National Health Service? A. Nothing. Q. What if the doctor prescribes for my child a 2 oz. bottle of penicillin? A. At least 10s.—probably more. We also costed various ailments. For instance, the treatment for diabetes is insulin and the cost of private treatment to last one week would be 4s.—but nothing under the National Health Service. For heart trouble, the cost of private treatment by Lasix tablets  at the rate of one a day would be 50 tablets for 32s 6d.—but nothing under the National Health Service. For bronchitis, the killer disease of the North, treatment with Ledermycin would cost 16s. 4d. for a four-day course—but under the National Health Service, nothing. In a well known, mildly radical Left-wing reformist paper called Tribune, there appeared in a letter this week the following verse in a song entitled ""The Blue Flag"". The first verse epitomised for me the social philosophy of the benches opposite. The verses are to the tune of ""Maryland, my Maryland"" and the first verse goes: The People's Flag is truest blue, What Crossman says is just untrue, The Welfare State is here to stay For those who can afford to pay. Of all hon. Members in this House, I least of all want an early General Election. Perhaps that is why no one asks me. But if we are to have one, there is no issue on which I should like to fight it more than the social policies of this party and of this Government. Let us consider what has been achieved in these 16 fruitful months after 13 sterile years. For homes, the linchpin of any social policy, we have had the Rent Act, the Land Commission Bill, the Rating Bill, the new reforms of housing subsidies, the National Housing Plan and proposals for leasehold reform. For health, we have had the abolition of the National Health Service prescription charges, the new charter for general practitioners, now under negotiation, and a realistic hospital plan. For social security, we have had a whole range of increased benefits, together with wage-related benefits for unemployment, sickness and widows. Considering all this, Mr. Speaker, I rejoice at the prospect of joining battle with the parties opposite. Speaking on Second Reading of the National Insurance Bill, the hon. Member for Braford, West (Mr. Tiley) spoke of the North ""Hell"" by-election. I understand his feelings and can assure him and his right hon. and hon. Friends of an equally warm reception throughout the whole country when it is decided by the Prime Minister to seek an extension of the Government's mandate. I was advised that it is in the tradition of the House that a maiden speech should be temperate, moderate and non-controversial. I trust that I have not transgressed that tradition of this honourable House, of which I have been privileged to become the newest Member.
