gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of the House, the more so on this occasion because it is impossible for me to make   a speech which is not controversial, although I realise that on an occasion such as this I should try to be non-controversial. I have the deepest respect for those who hold views different from mine about capital punishment. Like many hon. Members, I have had numerous letters from constituents on this subject, and I have read with the greatest care every letter which I have received from the people of South Antrim. Just as in other parts of the country, some constituents are on one side in this issue and some are on the other. I want to thank the people who have written to me, because their letters have been of help. This is a subject about which one must think long, search one's conscience and make up one's own mind, regardless of the popularity or unpopularity of that decision. I have done so on the ground, and solely on the ground, that capital punishment is a deterrent. I am in favour of its retention, and I have come to this conclusion because I believe in the sanctity of human life. It has been said that those who are in favour of the abolition of capital punishment are forgetful of, or do not care very much about, the murderers' victims. That, in my view, is quite wrong. I do not think there is any hon. Member of this House who has not the deepest sympathy for the widow or the children or the relatives of a person who has been murdered, for the anguish and the grief they suffer. We must not, however, in my view, allow sentiment, either for the victim or for the murderer, to play a part in any decision. We should consider—and I submit that it is the main consideration—the potential victims, not the actual victims. The State and we in this House owe a duty to innocent people, old and young, who go about their jobs in the world peacefully. There is too much of violent crime today. Innocent people are being killed because the criminal believes that his right is might; he has no regard for the sanctity of human life, and I believe we must see that the Queen's peace is kept and that right and law are the rule in this land. The State and we in this House owe a duty to members of the police forces, men and women like ourselves, whom we ask to keep peace in the country; whom we ask, in their everyday dealings, to meet with violent criminals and to run the risk of being  killed as they go about their ordinary duties. I know it is said that capital punishment is no deterrent. We have heard in the debate today figures and statistics. I have tried in my own way to assess the arguments for and against; I have tried to assess the figures from countries which have abolished capital punishment and from countries which have retained capital punishment. It seems to me statistically, because there are so many elements involved, that any such comparison is valueless. I cannot prove by figures that capital punishment is a deterrent or that it is not a deterrent, and I doubt very much if anyone can. Why, then, do I think and believe that capital punishment is a deterrent? On one occasion in my life I had grave temptation to commit a murder. One of the factors which influenced me was the fear of hanging. I think today that if ever the temptation came again I should still find hanging a deterrent. I do not wish to detain the House, because many hon. Members want to speak in the debate. I believe in the sanctity of human life. I believe murder is an evil thing. I believe that capital punishment is a deterrent, and because of that I shall support this Motion and vote against the Amendment. I hope the House, too, will support the retention of capital punishment, and I think that the majority of people in the United Kingdom will have the same hope.
