gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is the custom for maiden speakers to pay a tribute to those whom they have displaced. The representative before me of the constituency of Bolton, East was Mr. Robert Howarth, well known, I think, for his contribution in the field of aviation and also for his sustained campaign to have crash barriers erected down the middle of motorways. Here it might be a little premature for me to pay my obsequies to Mr. Howarth, because I am certain that, with the ability that he has, he will quickly find his way back to this place—though not, I suggest, for Bolton, East. I have been prompted to speak by a desire to proclaim a vested interest in this matter. This interest is not peculiar to me, nor to those I represent here because it is the vested interest we all have in the well-being of the environment which sustains us. The oceans, after all, cover 70 per cent. of the earth's surface and they are critical to maintaining the world's environment, contributing to the oxygen-carbon dioxide balance in the atmosphere, affecting global climate and constituting the source of the world's hydrological cycle. The oceans are also economically valuable, providing a variety of food, energy and mineral resources. Britain, herself, in addition to protein food, takes from the sea, or the territory beneath it 70 per cent. of her natural gas, 10 per cent. of her coal, 10 per cent. of her sand and gravel and most of her   bromine and magnesium requirements—worth £200 million—yet they are only a fraction of the wealth which we might generate from the sea in future, provided that we learn to exploit these off-shore assets in a way which will leave the self-regenerative powers of the oceans substantially intact. In this Bill, we have been concerned with just one aspect of ocean management; namely, how to put an end to an abuse by traditional users of the marine environment, those who use it as a medium of transportation—an abuse which, if left unchecked, could seriously impair these self-regenerative powers, and consequently diminish the value of the sea as a productive resource. I am very gratified that my hon. Friend should have accepted the Amendment moved in Committee. I am chiefly gratified because I am one of those who are supposed to have rebelled against the Government. But it was never a question of voting against anyone, only of voting for something. Each one of us believed that what we were doing was right. My own views were simply that to charge a £50,000 fine instead of a £5,000 fine would constitute a greater deterrent to this offence. I also felt that £50,000 was more closely related to the gravity of the offence. We must remember that we have had legislation on this question since the 1920s. I am afraid that the problem is not getting any better. Every year coastal authorities report an increasing number of oil slicks around our shores. In the first six months of 1969 the coastguard service reported 111 oil slicks. In the first six months of 1970 that total had risen to 193. Accepting that there were new and better procedures for locating them and allowing for some of the reports to have been duplicated—and accepting that some of the slicks were the results of accidents, with which we are not concerned in this Bill—one is bound to wonder how many slicks were not sighted. I have with me the Report of the Lancashire and Western Joint Sea Fisheries Committee for the first six months of 1970. Bolton, East, my constituency, is a member of this Committee, which is responsible for supervising fishery conservation inside our territorial  waters along about 440 miles of the Lancashire and North Wales coastline. In one month of 1970, it is reported—and this is by no means the worst affected area—this happened: on 3rd March there was a one-mile oil slick about seven and a half miles west of the Bar Light vessel and on 4th March an aircraft reported a slick 20 miles west of—
