gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like all new Members of Parliament, may I start, as my first duty, by placing on record my appreciation and gratitude for the help, advice and kindness which is usually shown to us by established Members of Parliament. I should like to mention my predecessor, Harold Boardman, who served this House for 34 years. He had a reputation as a quiet, efficient and methodical constituency Member of Parliament, who did not hit the sensational press headlines. Nevertheless, he was highly respected for doing a thorough job as a constituency Member of Parliament, first and foremost. I recognise that fact, and I am sure that some long-standing right hon. and hon. Members recognise it also. I am only the third Labour Member of Parliament to be elected in the last 54 years of unbroken Labour rule—if I may call it that—to represent this mining constituency and cotton producing area. Like the legendary Joe Tinker—who was the predecessor of Harold Boardman—I also hope to stay here for a long time and to give the same stalwart service as they gave to this House and to the nation. Leigh is an industrial town. It owes its prosperity to many different kinds of industry, mainly textile manufacture, coal mining, electrical cable manufacture, plastics and the production of many electrical accessories. Recently the Prime Minister visited the constituency to see for herself the first new spinning mill to be built in Lancashire for 50 years. Unlike many towns in the industrial North-West of England, Leigh is extremely adaptable and has diversified rapidly. Like its people, who are endearing, brave and resilient, Leigh has met the challenge of change with courage and tenacity over 100 years. I have commented previously on the entrepreneurs for whom we are looking on the horizon of our industrial framework. Unless there is some positive encouragement, we may not find the people, as we have done previously in this historic part of Lancashire, to produce British goods of top quality for export. A feeling of pessimism has taken over since the Secretary of State announced the measure to change the area status grant. I make no apology for restating again and again the points I made as a member of the delegation of North-West Members of Parliament when we met recently to talk about the devastating effects that the change in the area status grant will have in this part of the country. Measures of this kind, as we have said before and reiterate now, will force firms to reconsider their future investment plans, and in all probability they will be reluctant to embark on expansion programmes because of the cut. The cut will have a serious effect on industry in my area. The 12 textile mills within my constituency are operating with exceptionally tight profit margins. The difference in the amount of the grant means that there is a high risk that the   mills will become uncompetitive and unable to meet the challenge of foreign competition, which has always been on the horizon. It is already affecting the viability and effectiveness of the firms to compete in world markets, and will certainly do so in the future. In some cases it is now being said that many firms will be forced to cut back on jobs and eventually close. I have given only a few illustrations of firms which have already made open announcements on what they feel will happen to their future investment programmes. The arguments put to the Secretary of State were well-researched and rational. They were not from supporters of my party. They were from men of long experience in industry, many of them consultants, giving their appreciation of what they felt was bound to happen in the long term to the kinds of industries they represented. They said that Leigh will become a dying town. Some firms have threatened to leave the area immediately. One example is that of a very famous international firm with a great reputation in the export market. It has been responsible for medical centres in Nigeria, time-cabins for the winter Olympic Games in Switzerland, and various other prestige export orders. I put this case to the Secretary of State for his comments. It was pointed out to him that here was a firm which had doubled its work force and trebled its capital expenditure. It had been developing a £l½ million project, exactly like the £6 million textile mill created by the Carrington Viyella group. The capital turnover of this firm had expanded by three times in a period of four years, and its labour force was rapidly increasing. Now that Leigh has become a degraded area, that firm can move seven-eighths of a mile up the road to an area with full development status, because Wigan has been promoted. I acclaim the increase in status given to Wigan. The ironic part about it is that my constituency is an integral part of the Wigan metropolitan authority, and an arbitrary line has been drawn through the middle of it. This is completely discriminatory in its effect. I mentioned to the Secretary of State the high unemployment in the Wigan sector as against my own constituency. My hon. Friend the Member  for Newton (Mr. Evans) also has an interest in this matter. We pointed out that obviously the decision was a suicidal one. We said that there would be a mass exodus of these small firms which were developing large expansion programmes. The director of the firm that I mentioned states: We have a modern purpose-built factory and have built a trading estate that has created even more jobs for Leigh people. It really would be a temptation to move to a special development. There are four of our competitors in Wigan who are going to benefit. What is to happen to firms of this character? Who is to come to their assistance in this area? I make no apologies, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for quoting my own constituency problems. The Leigh area, along with the rest of the North-West, will become the industrial backwater of Great Britain if we are not very careful. I put it to the Secretary of State again this evening that we are likely to lose firms which have shown great initiative, enterprise and entrepreneurial ability. What is to happen to them when they have exhausted their self-help? It cannot be denied that many of their foreign competitors are directly subsidised by their own Governments, not only in money but also in materials. Sonic of our great fastener industries have evidence that a foreign competitor received a 100 per cent. grant towards the cost of materials alone. This is a standing disgrace, when we are trying to fight by the Queensberry rules and the Government talk about keeping our chins high. I can assure the House that there is nothing more depressing and distressing than this and that nothing acts as a greater deterrent to many of our people, both employers and employees. With the best will in the world, and with all their drive and stimulus, they cannot compete with market forces of this kind. The position is quite ridiculous, and it can be put right only by means of intervention. There are greater problems in the North-West with many questions left unanswered. I respect the Secretary of State for listening attentively to the views of Members. However, there are issues on which we part company for obvious reasons. The right hon. Gentleman said that if an area was downgraded it was a sign of hope. I understand that ""hope springs   eternal"". With his usual vision, he explained that the areas would restimulate themselves. As someone who has worked in semi-darkness all his life as a mining engineer, I must tell him that sight is a special blessing. However, there are times and places when it is far more blessed not to see. The Government's industrial strategy is an example of the blind leading the blind. I turn to the question of derelict land grants. For forward planning and investment reasons, it is imperative that we have a clear and understandable answer to the question whether the grants will be retained. We must try to do away with the ugly urban sprawl that blights the Greater Manchester area.
