gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Having listened to the hon. and learned Member for Kettering (Mr. Mitchison), I thoroughly well realise that I am extremely ""small beer"" in standing before you today, Mr. Speaker, and asking for the indulgence of the House, as this is the first occasion on which I have addressed it. I have on many occasions appeared on playing fields in the constituencies of many hon. Members, and on those occasions the matter was usually controversial, and it was not always settled entirely to my satisfaction. However, I hope that if, on this occasion, I give no provocation, the House will be kind enough to extend to me the courtesy which it usually extends to a maiden speaker. As hon. Members are probably aware, the division of Yardley is part of the large conurbation of Birmingham, and is perhaps in one of the most intensive industrial areas in the country. Curiously enough, my constituency does not contain an enormous number of factories, probably a dozen or fifteen, but the manufacture of machine tools, wire drawing, the making of motor components and various goods required for transport facilities are among the trades which are carried on then. We are, in fact, a dormitory division for this great city. The enterprise and hard work which has been characteristic of Birmingham for so many years is not dead, but is showing itself in my constituency in the way in which new churches are being built and old ones renovated and repaired. Any matter which concerns the trade and industry of this great country naturally affects my constituency very deeply. We do not, however, possess that civic centre in the division which is so important and would contribute to its life. During the last two years I have visited a great many homes in my constituency and could not help being impressed by two facts. One is the desire that the present prosperity of trade in the city should be continued, with employment for the people, and the second is that the weekly pay packet must buy as much in twelve months' time as it does today. Of course, that in its turn means that hire-purchase payments are met, that rent does not get into arrears, and that there are plenty of those things which go into the housewives' shopping bags. This position can be easily spoiled if inflation raises its ugly head again, as it may well do. No one realises this more than the Yardley housewife, or, indeed, housewives in general, for it is on the housewives that the burden of inflation falls, and they do not wish again to experience the spiral which involves rising prices. These facts are not entirely unconnected with the matter before us today. If Great Britain enters into a trading agreement which is unsuccessful, or turns out to be to our disadvantage in the end, the industries of my city will suffer, and that, in its turn, will bring unemployment, misery and hardship to many of my constituents. For the City of Birmingham depends on a flourishing export trade. In fact, there is no commercial decision at which this House can arrive which does not affect it very seriously. It is because the bread and butter of so many people are involved that this Bill will be scrutinised very carefully by all those concerned with the industrial and commercial life of my city. I hope that my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade will be encouraged by the general welcome which has been extended to the Bill, and   not only from Birmingham but from many Midlands industries. Many people are now realising the advantages of bulk production, and the large reductions in costs which can be obtained if, in fact, there is a great flow of trade and plenty of orders about. The success of British industry in this field is admirably demonstrated by the motor industry, which plays a prominent part in the industrial life of our city, and has contributed so greatly to the export trade of this country, hitting target after target. The problem is always to find a bigger market than the 55 million souls who live in these islands can provide. The Agreement between the Seven adds a potential market of something like 26 million people in a very prosperous part of Europe, who have a great purchasing power as well. It is not only those who are engaged on mass production who will benefit, but also those who rely on their skill and the quality of their goods, and they will reap a benefit from the wider opportunities which these provisions will ultimately provide. We cannot, however, expect people from foreign lands to owe us our living. This House, unfortunately, cannot pass Measures which will ensure that foreign peoples purchase our goods. It cannot guarantee that we shall have easy business or comfortable employment. I was gratified to hear the Minister of State say that provisions were being made to ensure that there would be adequate supplies of cheap raw materials. It is absolutely vital for the continuance of industry in my area that there should be no increased cost whatever in providing raw materials. The opportunities which the Bill offers will only be achieved if certain requirements are met. First, prices must be competitive. Secondly, delivery dates must be met. Thirdly, design must be up to date, and quality must be first class. These requirements are not beyond the capacity of the efficient manufacturer, but they certainly leave no room for the old-fashioned and inefficient firm. Given these requirements, a great responsibility rests upon our export salesmen, who have a most important job to do. I sometimes wonder whether people realise that, and give them the status they deserve. I should like to see more chairmen and managing directors of firms going out into foreign markets to  consider whether prices are right, whether design is right and investigate all the possibilities. I am sure that this would do nothing but good. Increased activity by our salesmen will be effective only if there is no discrimination against British goods and if there is fair competition. I am thinking of tax subsidies, export incentives and similar devices. I hope that the Minister will be able to assure us that the Government are alive to these problems and that the Bill will enable them to take early action should export subsidies and incentives act to the detriment of British industry. The Stockholm Agreement contains an Article dealing with complaint procedure, but it is very galling for a manufacturer who thinks that he has been affected by indiscriminate and subsidised competition to be told that his complaint is being considered by a council when all the time he is losing his trade, is probably losing his profits and possibly turning off his workpeople. I hope that if a case such as that does arise and the Board of Trade is put to the test, the batting of the Board of Trade will be more like the M.C.C. batting in Jamaica than another test which took place in another part of the Commonwealth a year or two ago. We want some commercial zip when these circumstances arise. Another form of competition which must be faced is that of quality. It is possible to sell goods which on the face of them look perfectly all right, but are, in fact, sub-standard and of slightly lower cost. Very often goods coming into this country do not meet safety regulations. Industry would welcome an extension of the activities of the B.S.I. in this field. When the European Free Trade Area proposals come into operation there will be a much greater scope for the activities of that body. I should like the House to be assured that it is not competition which we want to avoid, but unfair competition which we want to eliminate. It is all right to be playing the other side, but is a little hard for the referee and linesmen to be against one as well. I hope that we shall not be subjected to many low quality and low-priced goods flooding into the country under these regulations. The future and livelihood of our people depend upon the success of our attempts to obtain export business. Everyone in   this country must realise the importance of these provisions and how essential their success is to our standard of living. I sometimes wonder whether ordinary citizens of the world realise how important they are. I want to suggest two things which we should lay down. First, we cannot tolerate inefficiency or obsolete business methods. We cannot afford restrictive practices or anything which harms our export trade. The City of Birmingham would not be the great conurbation that it is if it had not been for efficiency and good management, and its 1,500 trades would not have come where they are and stayed if they had been based on inefficiency and bad management. Among these industries there are some very small ones which are extremely adaptable and very efficient. Secondly, anything which puts up costs will lose us export markets and be entirely against the national interest. I have mentioned the responsibilities of employers, but I do not think that we should forget the obligations of employees. This is not the time to discuss the reasons or justification for an industrial dispute. I certainly do not want to enter into the realms of controversy, but I should like to refer to the method of settling disputes. If the strike weapon is used it will harm not only the general public, but employees and manufacturers as well. It is bound to put up costs and bound to make delivery dates more uncertain. Nothing annoys a foreign producer more than the non-arrival of his goods and his inability to keep his production programme. Under the Bill, which prepares for a reduction of tariffs and increased European competition, these are important matters. We cannot expect foreign firms which are importing into this country not to take every opportunity they can to secure every market which is possible. That will be to the detriment of our industry and the standard of living of our people. I hope that those responsible for these matters will bear that in mind. Some traders will be hit by these proposals. Obviously, there must be give and take in reaching an agreement with six other countries. Those who have to give will not like it and those who have to take will. I hope that we shall not  desert the more unfortunate industries in these circumstances. I know from my own experience that some small industries are apprehensive about what will happen. I am thinking of copper smelters and refiners, and bronze and brass ingot manufacturers. Both industries depend on non-ferrous scrap. They feel that, if certain export restrictions are removed, scrap will flood out of the country, will cost them more and in the end will put up the price of their products. The smelters expect to be put out of business. I hope that we shall not forget that and that the Board of Trade will be ready and available to go into action as soon as the necessity arises. In conclusion, we in Birmingham welcome the Bill as offering to our industries a challenge and an opportunity. It has the challenge that the cold blast of foreign imports will be felt by our industries, but they can be met by the skill of the workpeople and the inventiveness of the manufacturers. It gives us the opportunity of a much wider market, not only for those interested in mass production, but also for those supplying quality goods looking for other markets. Let us enter the European Free Trade Area with mutual co-operation and unity. The opportunity to increase our standard of living is before us. If we could do this and make an outstanding success of it, we could stagger the world and perhaps even surprise ourselves.
