gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of hon. Members on this occasion and I assure them that I shall not trespass too long on their time. My reason for intervening in this debate is that the constituency which I represent is, to a large extent, agricultural and to a certain extent—fortunately not to the extent experienced by others—is affected by an inadequate electricity supply. One of the effects, probably the most serious effect, of this inadequacy is on the labour aspect of the agricultural industry. The hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Hurd) quoted a drift from the land of 10,000 per annum in the last four years. The continuous and steady drift is probably the biggest obstacle in the way of achieving any agricultural programme that we may want to achieve. Obviously the main reason for it is in the attractive amenities in the towns. When one analyses those amenities which act as a magnet, one finds that in the main they are based on an efficient electrical service. Many farmers today who have no electricity supply are finding the utmost difficulty in obtaining satisfactory and skilled labour. Again, as my hon. Friend the Member for Newbury said, the present generation, and probably quite rightly, will not tolerate the grim conditions which a lack of an electricity supply creates. The second point I wish to raise is the financing of new installations and new connections to farms and rural dwellings. At the moment there are, I believe, three   different methods adopted among the various area boards throughout the country. It seems to me that, after five years of centralised direction, a standardised method giving reasonable economic terms to the supply companies, and attractive terms of supply to the consumer, should, by now, have been found. There are certain aspects of the present arrangement as betwen supply boards and prospective consumers which, in my view, bar the way to a more rapid development in the supply of electricity to the rural areas. My hon. Friend the Member for Ashford (Mr. Deedes) emphasised in a previous debate—and he did so extremely comprehensively—the meagreness of the estimates which are presented by the supply boards to their prospective customers. I wish to re-emphasise the point made by my hon. Friend that in present conditions, where a competitive tender cannot be obtained, the area boards ought to give the fullest possible information, even perhaps to the extent of indicating to the prospective consumer how much of the capital cost they themselves are in effect bearing. But there is another aspect of these financial arrangements which I think is also detrimental to this development, and that is the attitude of the boards regarding the actual financing. There was a case in my constituency where two farms, I think five houses and an oast house, which it was proposed to convert, made the necessary applications to the board for an electricity supply. The whole thing fell through, not only because the price was too high—it was something in the region of £2,000—but also because the board insisted upon payment on the signing of the agreement and, at the same time, stated that they could not undertake to begin the work for a period of two years. Quite frankly, it is beyond my comprehension why a prospective consumer should be asked to finance the British Electricity Authority for such a period without any return on his capital. I mention these things because, in my view, they indicate either poor salesmanship or the effects of a deliberate policy of restraint under which these boards have been placed in their advertising policy. Since the beginning of 1948, between 45,000 and 46,000 farms have been provided with an electricity supply,  but when one analyses the figures one finds that there is an almost constant annual figure of connections of, approximately, 9,200 or 9,300 a year. There is no increase in that rate of connection. I appreciate, as I think we all do, that during the past five years shortages of materials, rising costs and the necessary restraint on capital investment have imposed a handicap on area boards, but I feel that that situation has considerably altered today. Only this week, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor told us that there were more doors open for increasing investment in productive industries. I suggest to my right hon. Friend that when he is considering the annual investment programme for the electricity industry, he should take advantage of the fact that one of these doors is now ajar, and that within the overall investment there should be a specific and an annually increasing allotment for bringing electricity to the farms. I also suggest that that allotment should be specifically mentioned, because by so doing, I feel it would give the necessary publicity throughout the country and would help towards a more rapid development. I gather from previous speeches, and from certain interjections which hon. Members on both sides have made, that perhaps ways might be found of contributing towards this high capital cost, or at least of providing some financial arrangement over a long period of years which would ease the burden to the prospective consumer. My right hon. Friend stated a little time ago, in answer to a Question, that the Government have accepted the recommendations of the Ridley Committee, and the fact that, by and large, charges should be related to cost. Generally speaking, I agree with that policy, but I feel that it is a matter for serious consideration whether the disadvantages and the deterrents of this high capital cost are not more than outweighed by the extra production which would result from more rapid development in this sphere. I hope that on this occasion I have not detained the House too long, but I feel that at the present time, when there is a great need for self-sufficiency in our agricultural and food production, a more rapid and vigorous policy in this sphere would give more weight and would become an even greater stabiliser to the   national economy, which is something very much needed today.
