gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, as a member of the Jewish faith, desire whole-heartedly to support the Measure which is before the House. I regard it as part of the process of religious emancipation which commenced in the 19th century, and I am very glad that today we are presenting a charter so far as the Spiritualist community are concerned. I think nothing could be finer, at the present time, than that we should proclaim to the world our own British way of life—our sense of respect for the religious beliefs of others. I am certain that this proclamation today, when the world is so sorely troubled in so far as freedom is concerned, will enable the British people once again to give a lead to the world, and enable us to play a worthy role in the counsels of the nations. I am always, as a member of the legal profession and a citizen of this great country, of the belief that the law should reflect the wishes and the spirit of the community in the period in which it is living. Obviously, the Witchcraft Act, 1735, and the Vagrancy Act, 1824, are anachronisms which long ago should have been abolished, instead of subjecting our fellow citizens who believe in Spiritualism to the danger of imprisonment. The Act of 1735 refers to the mere preence: to exercise or use any Kind of Witchcraft, Sorcery, Inchantment or Conjuration, or undertake to tell Fortunes or pretend from his or her Skill or Knowledge in any occult or crafty Science to discover where or in what Manner any Goods or Chattles, supposed to have been stolen or lost, may be found; every Person so offending …. in that Part of Great Britain …. shall for every such Offence suffer Imprisonment by the Space of one whole Year without Bail …. and …. be obliged to give Sureties for his or her good behaviour. I ask the House, in all earnestness, what the relationship is between the terms of this antiquated Act and the practising of Spiritualism in the respected way in which it is practised today. How can we relate one to the other. The Act of 1824 seems all the more absurd. Section 4 talks of those: …. committing any of the Offences herein-before mentioned after having been convicted as an idle and disorderly Person, every Person pretending or professing to tell Fortunes, or using any subtle Craft, Means or device, by Palmistry or otherwise to deceive…. any of His Majesty's Subjects""—  It might even include politicians, if we took consideration of this Section too far— every Person wandering abroad and lodging in any Barn or Outhouse.… The Act goes on to talk of the practices of that section of the community whom the State would condemn because of the dangers and evils that they constitute to society. I ask the House, in all seriousness, what the relationship is of Spiritualism and religious worship, and the employment of a medium, with that Section of the Act of 1824. I specially refer to that Section, because it is only by reference to that Act that one can see how preposterous and absurd is the implied relationship between it and modern Spiritualism as we know it today. The mere ""pretence"" is condemned, and not merely condemned according to the ordinary processes of the law as we know it today. According to Section 6: It shall be lawful for any Person whatsoever to apprehend any Person who shall be found offending against this Act, and forthwith to take and convey him or her before some Justice of the Peace, to be dealt with in such Manner as is hereinbefore directed, or to deliver him or her to any Constable …. if the Place where he or she shall have been apprehended …. and in case any Constable or other Peace Officer shall refuse or wilfully neglect to take such Offender into his Custody, and take and convey him or her before some Justice of the Peace, or shall not use his best Endeavours to apprehend and to convey before some Justice of the Peace any Person that he shall find offending against this Act, it shall be deemed a Neglect of Duty in such Constable …. and he shall on Conviction be punished.…. All that has been amended by the Criminal Justice Act, 1948. Therefore, if it was deemed right that the processes referred to in that Section 6 should be brought up to date or eliminated in this way, because they had no relation to the circumstances of our present times, how much more should that Section 4, which had reference to a different era, be eliminated in its relationship to Spiritualism. The Spiritualists are a very earnest and conscientious body in the community, who believe in their faith, and I respect men and women who believe in their faith. Indeed, I think that there is not enough religious freedom and toleration today, and that we want more. These earnest men and women have been prosecuted, and haled before courts under this ancient Statute, and it seems to me that   it has done injustice to those who were prepared to suffer for the faith which they held dear. Today, every psychic demonstration at Spiritualist churches registered as places of worship is exposed to the danger of prosecution under these Acts. This is a short Bill, though a very worthy one because it asserts the principle to which I have referred. For the first time, it clearly asserts and recognises Spiritualism as part of the enacted legislation of this country. At the same time, Clause 1 condemns those who are fraudulent and those who intend to deceive. I do not think we need be greatly alarmed about subsection (2) on the question of reward, to which my hon. Friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde (Mr. Lang) referred, because in that respect there must be the intention to deceive, and by no stretch of the imagination can it be suggested that anyone who is part of the religious worship of Spiritualism has any intention to deceive if he acts or is known to operate in relation to his particular place of worship. The virtue of this Bill is that it provides a safeguard against the arbitrary, narrow-minded views of some who may wish to seek or condemn Spiritualism, because the possibility of arbitrary or wanton prosecution is removed by Clause 1 (4), under which No proceedings for an offence under this section shall be brought in England and Wales except by or with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions. The Director of Public Prosecutions is a worthy officer who is anxious to safeguard the law and to take steps to condemn those who prey on society. He will have ample opportunity, with the aid of his officers, of investigating any complaint in relation to these matters, and he will be able to judge whether there is any intention to deceive, or whether any reward should be payable in respect of that intention. He would clearly be able to assert the rights of democracy and of our common citizenship in protecting the good and condemning the evil. For those reasons, I welcome this Measure, which has come before the House not too soon. It should have come before the House long ago, but perhaps we should welcome it today as being better late than never. We can continue, in this great country of ours,  that process of emancipation, of safeguarding sound religious conviction and condemning those who in the past have put religious conviction to personal advantage. I therefore take this opportunity of wishing the Spiritualist community every good fortune. I hope that those who have, in years gone by, played a worthy rôle as citizens of this great country will, in common with all of us, rejoice at this new blow for religious freedom and toleration. I earnestly trust that this Measure will receive a wholehearted Second Reading, and will continue unhindered and unhampered until it reaches the Statute Book and becomes part and parcel of the law of this great country.
