gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I come from the Spark-brook division of Birmingham and I followed, as its Member of Parliament, an hon. Member who was a great friend of mine. We lived adjacent to each other, we worked in the same area and we spent many years together on the Birmingham City Council. He was a grand little man who regarded it as his first duty to help other people. I very much miss him and regret the passing of my friend, Percy Shurmer. As so many people are living in my constituency who work for and in the motor trade, and as I have been engaged in the motor trade for nearly forty years, it is appropriate that I should first address the House on matters concerning the motor trade. I have been warned that my statements ought to be short, concise and factual in a maiden speech. There is no doubt that the present position is serious for the motor and motor cycle trade, particularly at this time of the year, and also for the workers who make such various components as tyres, batteries, electrical equipment,   bumpers, window and door handles and radiators. All these workers are dependent on the motor trade, and they feel the pinch when there is a slump in the car trade. But to get a true picture of the present position one must reflect on the immediate post-war years when people, not only in this country but in most countries of the world, were eager to own a British-made car. As a result, there was a great demand for workers, both skilled and unskilled. Coventry manufacturers and other firms did not hesitate to induce workers, by the offer of very high wages, to leave their present occupations and to go to work for them making cars. Toolmakers, sheet metal workers, polishers, platers, painters, electricians and fitters were all drawn away from other industries by this offer of such high wages. Even the increase in the price of a car by Purchase Tax did not stem the demand in the home market, and people all over the world wanted British cars. The demand far exceeded the supply, but the time had to come when this position would adjust itself. The workers stopped at Coventry because of the high wages. I have read in the Press that the average wage in the car trade is £18 a week, but a considerable proportion of them average approximately £5 a day. Even on short time they are earning over £12 on a two-and-a-half day week, and about £20 on a four-day week, which is more than workers in other industries receive for a 42-hour week. No section of workers in industry has enjoyed higher wages or more overtime than workers in motor car factories. I met a deputation of car workers in the House a short time ago. One of them complained that he was on short time. I said to him, ""There are plenty of jobs vacant in Birmingham. Many industries are crying out for employees."" To that, he replied, ""Yes, I know all about that, but I cannot earn as much money there as I can in my present job."" There are plenty of vacancies in Birmingham. For example, the city is short of 300 full-time postmen. Workers in the motor industry are not interested in such jobs, because the basic rate for postmen is at present £10 a week, with a maximum of £10 13s. for a six-day week, not a five-day week of 42 hours. As I said, I am in the industry. I am a toolmaker by profession. I work in the stamped and pressed metal industry where wages are controlled by a wages council. Many of the parts made in my industry go to motor firms. It is interesting to see the last schedule of minimum rates, which is dated 29th July and fixes wages for a 42-hour week for various workers. According to the schedule of the Stamped or Pressed Metal-Wares Wages Council, the highest-paid employee is a metal polisher. The salary of a Grade II man, who has had not less than six years' experience, is 177s. 6d., with a minimum for a pieceworker of 188s. The salary of a Grade III man, which means a worker who, in addition to having had six years' experience, is also an expert in all processes of both common and best work, or is a chargehand responsible for all work and order in the shop, is 188s. 8d. Compared with workers in other industries, car workers have had a very good time. We must not forget that they have fixed their standard of living at an inflated wage level and just cannot afford to take jobs at lower rates. The Chancellor of the Exchequer and the President of the Board of Trade, both of whom I have seen, have given much consideration to the present difficulties. I sincerely hope that they can give immediate help—particularly now just before Christmas—in this present crisis, but this help can be only of short duration. The salvation and the future of the motor industry will depend, not on Ministers, not on this Government or any other Government, but on the car trade itself. The car trade cannot exist on the home market alone. It must rely on the export market, where the industry now faces severe competition. During the last five years the percentage of British cars has slumped from 38 per cent. to 25 per cent. of the world's car exports. In the early days we had the markets practically to ourselves, but other car manufacturing countries have increased their production. In the last nine years Germany's yearly output has increased by 1¼ million. In the same period, France has increased its output by just under 1 million. Italy has increased its output by 370,000. Italy also reduced prices. No Government can guarantee full-time and overseas orders in the motor trade. They cannot compel the British manufacturer to sell his goods abroad, nor can they instruct the foreign buyer to purchase British cars in preference to those of our competitors. The people who determine the sale of British cars are the British makers, the British workmen and the British salesmen. The manufacturers of cars have shown by their vast building plans that they have confidence in the future, as I have. This recession is only temporary. However, they must search for better methods of production in order to reduce prices if we are to sell against world competition and produce the type of cars that overseas buyers demand. As the hon. Member for Hammersmith, North (Mr. Tomney) said, it may be wiser to concentrate on vehicles other than cars. Efforts must be made to provide better service and delivery periods. The salesmen in the industry should embark on a more vigorous campaign to sell British cars in the export markets and particularly in underdeveloped countries. The British workman can play his part by the various interests in the trade agreeing to agree amongst themselves; by the suppression of all unauthorised stoppages which do so much damage in industry; by accepting new and improved methods of production as a means of gaining more orders by decreasing prices and not by creating redundancy; and last but not least by seeing that a first-class product is produced. To sum up, the future of the car industry can be secured by complete co-operation of all interests giving to each complete confidence. There will be a constant demand at home and British cars will be competitive in world markets if all sections in production null together.
