gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This being my maiden speech, I will endeavour not to detain the House for long. I believe that I can claim to be doing something unique, for I am making my first speech in this House on my 25th birthday. I begin by paying tribute to my predecessors. The first was returned as the hon. Member for Nuneaton exactly 25 years before I was elected to represent this constituency. He is now the noble Lord, Lord Bowles, and sits in a slightly different part of the Palace of Westminster—where, I believe, he has slightly more decorative and certainly more important functions to perform than making maiden speeches. The second was Mr. Frank Cousins, who stayed here long enough to make a significant contribution to the House. Indeed, I understand that he made a very important contribution in getting one of the Government's most significant Ministries off the ground. With about 10,000 car workers, 4,000 miners, some railwaymen, workers in the quarries and hosiery trade and about 400 people who work at Bristol Siddeley all living in my constituency, I have been rather concerned about the topic on which I should speak when making my maiden speech. The topic under discussion today affects everyone living in my constitu-  ency, not least the 2,000 or so miners who have been transferred from Scotland. The Motion affects the future of my constituency as a whole. It is a subject about which there has been much talk, but little action. The action we have had has been of an empire-building kind of which I am not in favour. One or two authorities have been doing some empire-building. For example, Coventry has been trying to gain domination over the surrounding authorities, even to the extent of insisting on the retention of its name in the creation of the new Warwickshire police force. This and similar actions are to be deplored, particularly when we have more important and constructive things to do. The regional economic planning councils and boards have already done a lot of good work, although they are not armed with many teeth. I believe that the next step to be taken is to get together the various regional offices of the Ministries and Departments and to get together on a much more regional basis the various Departments which have offices in the regions. We already have the examples of the Department of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. It is now time to have more regionalisation, involving the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Social Security and other Departments. This is the direction in which we should be proceeding and it is the next step that must be taken, following the regional councils which have already been created. In our efforts towards regionalisation, we must not neglect the important problems of some of the constituent parts of the region. For example, there is a great tendency, as shown in the first Report of the West Midlands Economic Planning Council, to neglect the constituent parts of the region and concentrate merely on shifting people out of Birmingham. The same tendency appeared in the first Report of the Department of Economic Affairs on the West Midlands. While we have some evidence of regionalism in this country, we seem to be primarily concerned with the problem at what one might call the primary level. There are more important things involved in regionalism than merely overspilling people from Birmingham. For example, although the figures for my constituency and areas like it may not show a great   deal of unemployment, we have great need for new jobs to be provided. I represent a constituency in which about 10,000 people travel daily to work in the Coventry car trade. Many others have to travel elsewhere to work. We have just had one local pit closure and this sort of thing can easily involve the need to provide at least 1,000 new jobs. There are about 4,000 miners in my constituency. Since 1953, the labour force in mining and quarrying has been run down in this region by about 17,000 men, which is higher than the national average. Although the mining and quarrying community represents only 2 per cent. of the labour force in the area, it should not be thought that, because the area's unemployment figures are not high, we do not have serious unemployment problems. There is an extremely serious problem caused by hidden unemployment. There seems to have been emerging the philosophy that everybody should have the right to work within his or her native region. I am wondering whether this is starting to mean that certain parts of the region have to be left as dormitories. This is beginning to emerge. Some kind of selective expansion will have to be made possible even in the areas which so far have not been granted industrial development certificates. It is O.K. to talk about shifting industry to different places and moving jobs to various places, but we have to have industrial development certificates to do so. The present kind of regionalism seems to be mainly concerned not with this kind of problem, but with shifting people out of Birmingham into other areas, of which my constituency is not one. Some believe that dispersal so far has not worked and diversification so far has not worked and the first-aid principle has failed and because these things have failed the thing to do is to have outright regionalism. We have to have firms within the regions trading among themselves and more local autonomy, but they do not tell us how exactly the kind of philosophy is supposed to get a region off the ground. The way we have to go is the way I have suggested. The economic planning councils have already done some good work in presenting the economic picture to regions as a whole. The next step is to get the various regional offices of the Ministries  together. Whatever areas of authority we are talking about, whether regions or something slightly larger, these regional offices have to be the basis.
