gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have read Volumes I and II of the British Transport Commission's Report and have found them to be very good reading. They are set out in detail not only for us as Members of the House of Commons, but for the public, our competitors and our critics. I hope that all those who have taken the trouble to criticise railway transport will also take the trouble to read the Report. Do not take anyone else's word for it; read it. I hope that hon. Members will compliment the British Transport Commission on the way in which it sets out the details in the Report. I think it is splendid. The most important thing about nationalised transport, is its accountability to Parliament, so that we, the representatives of the nation, may look at what is happening in British transport and do what we can to help and better it. The type of man we have in the industry, as well as in the House of Commons on both sides, will do his best. On behalf of the railwaymen—I was with them only a few weeks ago—who are working in the marshalling yards that we read about, I would call attention to the fact that they are using stock that is unsuitable for men to work with. This is a subject which we have taken up with the management, whilst appreciating at the same time the difficulties caused by the restriction of capital expenditure. This equipment is unsuitable for the men, but because of the limitations upon capital expenditure there are difficulties in the way of the British Transport Commission's modernisation plans. To those hon. Members who say that we should pay our own way in the railway industry, I reply that we in the industry also want it to pay. We do not want to have to rely upon subsidies. Hon. Members must devise a system whereby the British Transport Commission can meet its costs. New marshalling yards   are being built which have a far greater earning potential and enable a speeding up of traffic. Trains can get to their destinations faster and faster. This will bring about not only a more economical means of transporting goods, but redundancy for many of the staff. My union, the National Union of Railwaymen, has looked at this matter, in co-operation with the British Transport Commission, in a very sensible way. We are prepared to go ahead with modernisation. I hope that the public do not expect that anything will be done for them or for anyone else at the expense of those who are working inside the industry. There are twenty-seven new marshalling yards planned, but owing to the restriction upon capital expenditure that programme has had to be slowed down. When they are completed, the British Transport Commission will be able to close 153 old marshalling yards which are looked upon as wasteful and obsolete. With alterations of a further twenty-seven, another thirty-seven yards can be partially closed. There will be saving of many hours for the working of trains at those new marshalling yards. The British Transport Commission must be given credit for what it has done on the railway stations. I remember saying that we needed a new station at Shaw Street, St. Helens. Our station is minus part of its roof. I believe that St. Helens deserves a far brighter and larger station. Because of the economic situation, we must look at what the British Transport Commission has done, and not only at what we think it ought to do. The restriction on capital expenditure is slowing up one of the most vital objects of the British Transport Commission, and that is safer signalling on the railways. Nothing hurts a railwayman more than to hear of an accident in which people have been killed or injured. I believe that all hon. Members feel the same way. When accidents happen and the inspectors of the Minister of Transport report that faults were found in the signalling apparatus, it takes our mind back to the relative values of life and capital. I hope that the House will look at the situation through the eyes of the men who are on the job. We want new marshalling yards and we are prepared to play our  part. If there is an international emergency in which we cannot get oil, the railways will run and they will do what they did in the last war, which is to see that the goods are delivered. I want to bring the attention of hon. Members to the position in my constituency, which is in a big transport area. Most hon. Members know St. Helens because of its famous glass industry. Others will know it because of its railway transport works, and others because of its coal output. Some will know of its famous technical college, whilst hon. and gallant Gentlemen will know of its famous Territorial Army Regiment. I had the honour of seeing that regiment given the freedom of the borough last Saturday I was proud of those men, and their officers. When we talk of transport charges, most of us try to be honest. I know that businessmen do, because it is no use being dishonest with yourself if you are trying to run a business. If you are in management, it is most difficult to make your prices meet your costs. Yet, in the record, for all of us to read, we find the prices of the chief commodities used by the British Transport Commission, including timber for sleepers upon which the tracks are laid. I was astounded upon reading the figures to discover that the price of timber sleepers had increased over the 1939 costs by 550 per cent. The price of coal for the British Transport Commission has risen by 410 per cent. from the same date. August, 1939, to 1956. Copper tubes, of which we use many on the railways in the construction of locomotives, have gone up by 270 per cent. and copper plates by 275 per cent. I will not bother the House with any more figures. It is wise for a Member making a maiden speech to make it as short as possible, and I feel that I can close by appealing to the Minister, to hon. Members opposite and certainly to my hon. Friends to see that the British Transport Commission and the railway worker are given a fair chance. If we cannot come to any decision in relation to subsidies or grants, I appeal to the House to set the British Transport Corn-mission free. Give it a free hand. If it wants to put up prices, let it take the risk. If it wants to bring down prices, give it that right. Thank you.
