gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to address the House for the first time, and I am conscious of the privilege. My constituency is in the centre of England. Formerly it was in the centre of the rail network; today it is in the centre of the motorway network—a convenient place in which to live. It is a revised constituency. A large part of the constituency was previously represented by Leslie Huckfield, who did not stand at the general election. Leslie Huckfield was elected in 1967 at a by-election and at that time he was the youngest member of the House. He applied himself with considerable effort and quickly learnt his trade. He quickly gained a reputation as an enthusiastic and energetic Member of Parliament. Despite his youth,  or perhaps because of it, he rose to positions of responsibility. In all, he served Nuneaton for 16 years. I should like to express my thanks and the thanks of the people of Nuneaton for the work he did over those 16 years. A smaller part of the former Nuneaton constituency is represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey), a lively and energetic Member of Parliament who chases around and has set me an example to live up to. I was grateful on my first day here to grab his coat tails and find my way around the House. The new constituency now has a rural area — a typical Warwickshire farming area. The town itself is old, its industries having been based on mining, quarrying, railway workshops and some textiles. However, there has not been a pit in the constituency for some time. The railway workshops closed many years ago. Those industries were taken over, largely due to our proximity to Coventry, by manufacturing industry and light engineering companies. We are a dormitory town in part for Coventry and to a lesser extent for Birmingham and Leicester. Our town has expanded over the past 25 years with new estates. However, it still retains its old character and independence. It is easy to consider Nuneaton as part of Coventry and the west midlands but it is surprising how independent it considers itself to be. Strangely, those, like myself, who come in from outside are soon swallowed up and soon embrace the independence demands for Nuneaton—not that I suggest we should declare UDI but there certainly is a definite independence. Today, there are a good few small companies in Nuneaton. We are not dominated by a particular company and have not been for many years. We reflect very much the west midlands and Coventry area in terms of our needs, demands and what we suffer. The unemployment rate in Nuneaton is roughly the same as that for the west midlands. After many years of prosperity, after changing from one industry to another and still retaining that prosperity, today we suffer like much of the west midlands. There are signs of improvement. As we are in the centre of the motorway network, distribution industries and a few industries of the electronic age are now coming to the town. Strangely enough, we may soon have mining back, but this time it will be opencast mining. Despite the way in which industries have come and gone, we have managed to cope with change over the years. Perhaps we shall be helped by the youth training scheme to cope with that change. It is a tremendous opportunity for the young people of our country and of my area to advance. Like many other areas, we cope well with the 16 to 19-year-olds. We have sixth form colleges for those studying for A-levels and a college of technology for those studying more technical subjects. We have good provision, but it is essentially for those who can take advantage of the formal training that is available. We all know that many of the young people at school have no great interest in carrying on a straight academic pursuit. Many youngsters have found great difficulty in coping with the present position. Even when employment was higher, many such youngsters tended to drift in and out of jobs. That led to a great deal of frustration and cynicism, with pegs in wrong shaped holes. There was a tremendous amount of drift. The youth training scheme bridges that gap. The rather haphazard approach to our young people will be helped tremendously by their having   an opportunity to go into training before they go to work. It is very much a visionary extension of education and training as it tries to give young people what they need in a form that they want. Whatever investment we make in this type of scheme, training people for work must pay high dividends at the end of the day. There are various other schemes which take people's interest but, whatever type of scheme they use, the great advantage of them all is that they are different. They are not stereotyped and it is clear from the guidelines that that must be the case. After all, considering the amount of time that people spend in various companies, they need variety in their training, for each company is different. That brings me to the important question of selection, of identifying people and their skills as individuals before they are allocated places. We must do everything possible to ensure that people and their aptitudes are fitted into the right areas. That will ensure that they go into the companies and organisations where their talents will be best used. It is not easy from the school point of view to recognise those talents. After all, mnny people are not interested in history, geography and various other subjects; they are looking forward to doing other things. At that stage, there is not the same certainty, and when asked, ""What do you want to do?"" youngsters cannot be sure. Preselection—help given by careers people and so on — is most important, but there is an onus on the managers of the various schemes, in industry and elsewhere, to look at the potential of the people in the schemes. We have a wonderful opportunity to put people into the right slots. The way in which people are trained is very much an individual matter so it is vital for those managing the various schemes to respond to the trainees as individuals. While we must have a base curriculum, it must not be rigid. That means that people running the courses must respond to the trainees as individuals. That is what work is all about—each person as an individual doing a job. It is the response to him and from him that makes the system work. It is about people learning discipline and the fact that they have a responsibility for what they are doing. On the teaching side, people must be managers of learning—a phrase which sums it all up—rather than instructors. From their point of view, it will be mainly a question of response—managing what is going on and giving people the opportunity to develop their skills. I particularly welcome the opportunity to let youngsters have experience of a wide range of industries. In that way their potential can be channelled into the right activities, and in that connection the monitoring of courses is vital. We must remember, however, that what we are doing is new. For that reason, the youth training scheme must be flexible and allowed to evolve. Like everything in learning, it must be an evolutionary process. As the scheme develops it will improve and that evolutionary approach will result in its success. We must evolve a system of training which will create for youngsters the sort of opportunities that they would otherwise have been denied, even in times of higher employment, so that we find the best slots at work for them. Our aim should be to show our youngsters that they are capable of learning and that it is not so bad to learn  skills which can enable them to work. By that means we shall train and retrain people in a much better way and create a motivated work force for the future.
