gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This Chamber is a lonely place to be in when one is making a maiden speech yet I have waited until now because I thought that this was an appropriate occasion for me to speak. I follow in representing Eccles a man who served the constituency and this House long and well. He is now not enjoying the best of health and I am sure that everyone in the House will join me in wishing him well for the future. Until recently I was a schoolmaster and head of a business study department. Had the right hon. Member for Wallasey (Mr. Marples) been one of my students I should have been compelled to put certain remarks on his school report. The right hon. Gentleman confessed today that he was now doing his homework. I should have had to write, ""Ernest would have done a lot better had he done his homework in the past"" because now the right hon. Gentleman is in opposition whereas previously he was in Government, and this is precisely why the Opposition are where they are today. It is because of their failure to realise the mood of the country in desiring change. Some hon. Members will probably feel that they know Eccles only as a place where cakes are produced. Although Eccles cakes may be delectable and   delicious to eat, thank God the economy of the division does not depend on cake-eating. Eccles is a constituency which has accepted change and a place where some of the older industries, particularly coal mining and cotton, have been modernised. We also have growth industries—chemicals and plastics—and across the Manchester Ship Canal we have at Trafford Park some of the best examples in existence of modern British industry. I plead for the constituency that we have plenty of room for more industry, and we need more. We would welcome new industry of any type into the area and the people of the region have clearly shown their ability to come into the latter part of the 20th century. Some hon. Members may think that with a technical college background I shall spend most of my time in this speech on technical developments, but that will not be the case because I believe, like Hazlitt, that man is the only animal that laughs and cries, because man is the only animal that can appreciate the difference between things as they are and things as they ought to be. Herein lies the challenge. Many of us, knowing what can develop from a carefully considered application of science to technology and knowing what could have been achieved, are positively astonished—I had better not use the word ""disgusted""—at the naïve attitude of so many people towards the potential to be obtained from innovation. I should have thought that, as my hon. Friend the Member for Middlesbrough, West (Dr. Bray) has said, There needs to be a general shift of technological activity and research and development through the whole spectrum of research in universities, in Government institutions and industry. There has to be a shift so that a greater proportion of the technological efforts of the country is applied to meeting""— in the short run— the basic needs of the country for food, clothing, housing and exports.""— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 5th November, 1964; Vol. 701, c. 477.] These are our basic needs. These will be the short-term aims, but if we are to see the full exploitation of knowledge for society this will be best appreciated when we realise how technical change will affect human beings. I  should therefore like to devote some of my time in this debate to the social implications of technical change. The right hon. Member for Wallasey hinted that technical change had been achieved but human beings were not prepared to accept it. This is a perfectly valid criticism of his method of procedure. If we are to have technical change let us, for heaven's sake, take the people with us and not achieve these changes in isolation and present them as a fait accompli because human beings will always want to try somehow to protect themselves from the evils of unemployment. I am not saying that we ought not to accept change. I also want to see change come about, and the major reason why the Minister of Technology is the person who has been selected is precisely because the Prime Minister appreciates the problem which lies ahead. It is mainly for this reason that I strongly support the Minister who has been selected. If one takes a historical view of production it could be said that the quality of life in Greece is represented by their philosophers but their philosophers were able to philosophise because they had slaves. The quality of life in Rome resulted primarily from the fact that the patricians had the plebs to support them. In the Middle Ages the knights in shining armour could go dashing off in all directions—like Members of the Opposition—saving all sorts of delectable ladies because the serfs were giving them the time to do it. In the heyday of British industry, the highlight in terms of production, the time when laissez-faire economics ruled the day, we had employers who were able to exploit human beings in such a way that they became veritable wage-slaves. If we are to expect the full fruits of technical change, if we are to meet the challenge of the export markets, this can only be done if we take the people with us on this venture. If we do not take people into our confidence, technical change will not come, and it is precisely for this reason that I welcome the appointment of Mr. Frank Cousins as Minister of Technology. Apart from the application of science to technology and the need to innovate in British industry, we must create a climate of acceptance. People must be sure that   they will not be the slaves of the machine. The Reith Lectures this year gave us a lead. Sir Leon Bagrit was stimulating and challenging while at the same time giving us an insight into what could happen. We tend to be afraid of the machine age because we fear that the production line will take control of us. People remember what happened to Charlie Chaplin, but he, poor fellow, was dominated by the machine. by a production line which got completely out of hand, whereas today, in fact, the computer will assist the dignity of effort of the human being on the production floor because it can control the rate of flow in such a way that the dignity of the human being will still be recognised. Unless we appreciate that human beings are involved in this revolution, we shall get nowhere. As an educationist, I make this plea. We tend to say that we are short of a certain group of people, and then tremendous pressure and effort is put into securing them, and, in the process, we very often twist and distort the character of the student. It is true that we need more technologists—this is accepted on both sides of the House; but in our indecent haste to produce the number of technologists we want, let us not do it at the expense of individual students. We must still strike a balance between the scientist and technologist and the arts student. In our effort to secure more technologists, please let us not do it at the expense of compelling schools to turn people on the path of technology before they are ready. I was rather surprised to hear one hon. Member speak in terms of a crash programme for technologists. This, I feel, cannot be the right approach. Our terms of reference must be encouragement and balance. One hon. Gentleman opposite—I rather liked this—said that the arts student knows less about science than he ought to. As a possible arts graduate with a science background, I should like to think that the arts student knows as much about science as the science boys know about the arts. The science people are at least prepared to learn something of other disciplines. Would to God we could induce some of our schools which are already bigoted in their approach to education to accept the dignity of the technologies. I thank the House for receiving me as it has. I have tried to make a serious  contribution, based on my background. I conclude in this way. Given the right kind of political climate, given the appropriate decisions on technology, and given also that the benefits of a technological revolution go to the many and not to the few, I am certain that the people of Britain will welcome change and that, if they do, it would be of great benefit not only to all of us in these islands but to the peoples of the under-developed countries and of the world in general.
