gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In craving the indulgence of the House upon rising to address it for the first time, may I explain why it is that I rush in at this very early stage of my first term as a ""new boy""? I do so only because during and since the election I have been pressed very strongly by a number of people to ventilate their anxiety on the subject of housing. They are members of local authorities, constituents of mine of all parties—not only of one—ministers of religion and people engaged in social and public work of every kind. All of them express the view that at the present time the housing shortage is a social evil of a terrible kind, and anyone who has engaged in the administration of justice will be able to confirm that there are many distressing cases in which we are told that the man concerned comes from bad housing conditions. Therefore, I feel that one can speak upon this subject in a non-controversial way. It is, indeed, a sad thing that this subject cannot be treated as a non-party subject. In my constituency we have examples of all the housing troubles except those which one finds only in the great cities, and one particular example that I should like to mention is the condition of those who live in the hut camps, the disused prisoner-of-war compounds, and places of that kind. It would not be right for me to waste the time of the House by describing those things which we have all seen, or ought to have seen, for ourselves. It is sufficient to mention one case. It would be quite enough to satisfy anyone if he saw the conditions as I saw them in the wet weather at the beginning of February. I recall a man and wife with 11 children in a hut of which the roof was beyond real repair, and with practically no sanitary accommodation or arrangements of any kind. For people living in those conditions we have got to do something; I believe there is no one who would not agree to that. I think it is desirable to mention one thing. It is not fair to blame the local authorities for people having to live in these places. I have done all I could to satisfy myself that the local authorities in my area have built and are building every single house they can build, subject to the regulations at present in force. It is very unfair to blame the local authorities in these circumstances. For example, in my area one large local authority have recently put a very large scheme to the Ministry of Health. They have been unable to persuade the Minister to accept their plans and suggestions, but I hope very much that we may be able to persuade him to take a more favourable view of the matter before very long. There is another council which is partioularly anxious to be able to take advantage of the numerous cases of people who want to build their own small houses. They are unable to do so at the present time because of their inability to obtain licences, and therefore these people swell the waiting list. They are hoping in due course to get one of the houses or to be put upon the list to get one of the houses which should really go to other people. That sort of thing is familiar to everyone. We are also familiar—only too familiar, I am afraid, after the many speeches that have  been made, to which I shall not add—with the answer. There is only one answer. I believe we can all agree that there is only one answer—to build more houses and at prices which will justify rents which the people can afford. On the other hand, we must enable people to build and to buy houses themselves. That is the view which we hold on this side of the House, and in fairness I should like to point out that I always told people during the election that I would make no promises of any kind to them. When I was visiting people during the election, I said I could make no promise to do something for them if I was returned; I consistently refused to make such promises. I told them it would not be honest to do so. There was only one thing I could do and that was to promise them a new and unprejudiced approach to the whole problem of housing if we got in. That is what we promised them, and I must not enter into controversial matters about it. These people now tell me—and I have talked to them again recently—""We have read the King's Speech and we find no reference in it to housing."" That is a thing which is causing a great deal of comment and discussion, and I have been asked to express that view in this House. We on this side of the House take the view that the Government have refused to recognise the public reaction to what was described in ""The Times"" today as one of the main issues in the General Election. Last Thursday, as a new Member, I was very surprised to hear what was said about this housing Amendment by the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister. I regret to say that he used some very strong expressions. He described it as a party manoeuvre and as an irresponsible action, and he said that those of us on this side of the House who supported it would not be genuine. Finally, he said that there was something inherently wrong in supporting an Amendment to the Address. I should like to pass over the words ""not genuine."" The use of those words could, perhaps, be explained by the heat of the moment. A much more serious suggestion, however, was surely the suggestion that there was something wrong and unconstitutional in an Amendment to the Address such as that which is being debated this evening. I yield to no one   in my ignorance of Parliamentary practice and procedure, but I do profess to know a little of constitutional law and I have always been brought up to believe that one of the ancient rules of Parliament is that redress of grievances precedes supply. I respectfully maintain, therefore, that if any hon. Member feels that there is a grievance of a serious nature agitating his constituents, he is not only entitled but he is bound to see that it is raised, and I maintain that it would be a dereliction of duty on the part of those sitting on this side of the House if they were to fail to take notice of the housing problem. I was sent here by a majority of the electors—not by a minority—of the Chertsey division. I was sent here to oppose the Government, and I cannot accept any qualification upon that duty, apart from one, and that is that I should not indulge in fractious or irresponsible action. I do not believe that in his serious moments the Minister of Health would really suggest that this Amendment is fractious or factious. I would say that tonight, unless there is some indication that, after all, the Government do intend to give some lead towards a new and unprejudiced approach to the housing problem, it is the duty of all of us who sit on these benches to support this Amendment and in doing so to give wholehearted support in that respect to the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the Opposition.
