gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As is customary for a new Member in a maiden speech, I pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Marples, who had a long and distinguished career serving the public, and particularly as a Minister. Having the honour to follow such a distinctive character has led me back to very much more active pursuits than I have been carrying on in the past few years. Whilst I make no promise to emulate Mr. Marples by running round Hyde Park each day, I find a bicycle most useful. In certain parts of Wallasey it is a most practical form of transport. The House has probably not heard for the past 29 years anything about the constituency of Wallasey. There have been no substantial boundary changes. The constituency starts at one side near West Kirby, at a little village called Saughall Massie. It then proceeds along a coastal route towards the area of Wallasey Village, where I live. It proceeds from there to the area of New Brighton, which was formerly a central area for entertainment and one which I hope will again come to the forefront of the Wallasey and New Wirral society. The poorer end of town—I am sure that the residents will not mind me saying so—is one that gives me most concern. It is called Seacombe. It is from there that the ferry crosses the Mersey to Liverpool. In that area are to be found  many of the under-privileged and people who need genuine help from every Government and council which comes into office. It is my pleasure to express straightforwardly my views on a section of the community which exists not only in Wallasey but throughout the country. I refer to those who cannot run, those who will never ride a bicycle again or perhaps have never been able to do so, namely, the disabled. It is to that part of the Gracious Speech to which I shall give my attention. In a time of worldwide inflation it is all too easy to say, ""We cannot afford it"". It is my contention that the able-bodied should give up a little of their share of the national cake to enable the 1½ million severely disabled to have the chance to lead more satisfying and happier lives. The loss of limbs or their use rarely means a loss of ability to contribute to society. In many cases one disability will sharpen the ability of other limbs to cope and the mind's attention to deal with the new challenges which are presented. Why should the disabled not lead full lives in the community? Why should they not contribute to business and to social life? I hope that the Secretary of State will encourage the TUC to further employ disabled people in jobs which will enable them to contribute usefully to society, not just for the benefit of everyone else, but for their own benefit as well. In the County Borough of Wallasey, as it will remain for a further two weeks, the per capita average net expenditure per registered disabled person, excluding the blind, the partially sighted, the deaf and the hard of hearing, has I regret, only doubled in the five years up to 1972 to a total of £16·63. That is very low. Liverpool has done a little better, but that figure outlines the enormous job which we all have before us in looking after those people who are less able-bodied than ourselves. It is in that respect that I welcome the appointment of the hon. Member for Manchester, Wythenshawe (Mr. Morris) as a Minister with responsibility for the disabled. The disabled took new heart with the introduction of the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act 1970. They continued to take new heart when certain measures were introduced by the previous Government. However, there is much more to be done. There are many   areas where relatively small expenditure can do so much. What seems to be required is a little more thought. Part of the rehabilitation of the disabled and the handicapped is mobility. If they can work and pay their own way it will mean that more money will be available for other people such as the more severely disabled. In that respect I turn my attention to invalid vehicles. There are about 20,000 tricycles known as P70s. As one newspaper correspondent said, they are more like P1870s than P1970s. They are wobbly and unstable in a wind. They have little room inside and offer no comfort. They can accommodate no passengers. I feel privileged to have sat in one of these vehicles recently. I thought with horror of doing anything more than 2 m.p.h. along a kerbside in such a vehicle. The people who are given these vehicles cannot leap out and run for help when there is a breakdown. There are only 150 appointed agents to service these vehicles. In 1972 there were 5,000 accidents. That figure represents the involvement of one quarter of the total number of tricycles. A lot of people were sitting at home for a long time while the repairs were carried out. I await with interest the publication of the Sharp Report. I understand that it will be published in 10 days. Before the publication of that report our minds should be turning to the adaptation of conventional vehicles on a large scale. Were it done on a large scale the service would be better. Such vehicles would be more comfortable for disabled people and they would be cheaper to produce. The disabled would then have the joy of being able to take their families with them when they went out. Further, they would not feel so conspicuous as they feel in the little wobbly blue things. It is perhaps never the right time to discard anything which we have had in our system for a long while. I am sure that the right hon. Lady will tell me that now is not the right time. However, I believe that it is high time that we emulated the work which our European partners have done in discarding the tricycles. It is safer to have four-wheeled vehicles. To convert an automatic Mini for the use of a disabled person costs about £30. Conversion for  the more severely disabled can rise to as much as £200. I feel that the £100 which is paid on a quarterly basis is far too small, particularly when it is considered that more money is needed to pay the extra tax which unfortunately is liable on the conversion of a car for the use of the disabled. What else can we do? Smaller measures are necessary and perhaps the measure which I have mentioned is fairly large. I should be prepared to give up some of my share of the national cake so as to help the people who currently have tricycles to get suitably converted cars. What else can be done? Many disabled pensioners in our society who have invalid cars do not receive concessionary fares for public transport, for they cannot use it. With the increasing price of petrol it is time to change the system so that disabled pensioners receive some concessionary petrol, as they cannot benefit from concessionary fares. The disabled in every part of the community and in every city are not interested only in long trips. They all have a need to get to the shops, to the library or to the local government offices. For example, in Granby, which is an area of Liverpool 8 and which is mentioned in the SNAP Report, many disabled people need to get to the local government offices. It is interesting to note how many blocks apart are the local housing, employment and DHSS offices in the Granby area. But the disabled in that area are in a better situation than many others. It costs only a little to give a lot of thought, and such action makes a great difference. I hope that the next time any local authority social services committee requests a disablement income group, of which I am a member, to attend a meeting it will not organise it in a room at the top of a flight of 12 steps and then another flight of 20 steps. Goodness knows what the committee was thinking about when it organised a meeting in such a room in a certain town hall. At the time of the petrol crisis it seemed iniquitous that local authority transport should have been removed from the disabled people who wanted to attend meetings of the disabled. Transport was formerly provided but it was not available at a time of crisis. Then there are the problems of the places they need to get to: for example, the new shopping precincts, which appear to me to have steps galore in some cities, and do not have enough ramps. Invalid cars are unable to move around them because there are special lanes reserved for buses and taxis. Perhaps there is a case for considering whether invalid cars might not be allowed into these precincts or along these specially reserved routes, We need new thoughts throughout planning, before action takes place. One area in which we could find and use new thoughts concerns paraplegic games. I hope that we shall get the Government's backing to use some of the ideas evolved at Stoke Mandeville for adaptations to sports centres. I am thinking in particular of the one now being constructed at Port Sunlight, in my area. With a little imagination, an awful lot can be done. Thirteen years ago, a colleague of mine had the idea of building a catamaran for people in wheelchairs. It was organised by Sportsmen Pledged to Aid Research into Crippling Diseases—""Sparks"". It is five years since the Duke of Edinburgh launched Sparkle Ito take disabled people in wheelchairs first on the Thames and later on the south coast. Having worked with this organisation for the last 11 years, it is my ambition to have Sparkle II on Merseyside and Deesside for handicapped people in the North-West. I hope that this will be done. I hope also that the right hon. Lady will look towards making a small grant—a great sum is not needed—to an organisation called the Toy Library Association for the Young Handicapped. The idea is to enable parents of handicapped children to try out various toys for their children in order to see whether they are suitable for their particular disabilities, before they launch out into spending a considerable amount of money on what are expensive toys. Many nationalised industries are spending a substantial amount of time digging up our roads. I suggest that the Secretary of State for Industry should instruct his planners and those carrying out the work to ensure that, when they dig up roads, kerbstones and cornerstones, they replace them with sloping stones to enable wheelchairs and, indeed, mothers with prams, to  get along more easily. Far too often we go back to doing the old thing the old way, because we have not thought about it anew. If the right hon. Gentleman could plan in that way, it would be better than creating a castle in the sky in the shape of a national enterprise board. There is a whole mass of things that I want to see done for the disabled, who are among the most needy in our community. I hope that the Government, who need a bit more will and a bit more thought, though they certainly have the concern, and the Opposition will do all they can to improve the lives of 11 million severely disabled people and the many hundreds of thousands more who are disabled to a lesser extent.
