gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I beg the indulgence of the House for yet another maiden speech? Nobody who has spoken in the House for the first time or who has been, as I have now been for some little time, on the verge of speaking, can doubt the sincerity of that request. The foreign policy of this country has undergone a great change during this century. It has now been brought into the homes of the people, it affects our daily lives, and it even affects our actuarial prospect of life. There must, therefore, be a correspond-   ing change in the method of handling foreign policy. There is far too much, and there has been far too much, polite diplomatic language and ersatzexplanations which conceal the true position. Therefore, I welcome the stand made by the Foreign Secretary at the London Conference, and some of the bald statements in the speech of President Truman, because they serve to blow away some of this camouflage. As a new boy, fresh from the country, I urge upon the Government the tremendous importance nowadays of telling the country as much as possible about foreign affairs. Let people know where we stand; let them know what is happening. After all, if things go wrong, it is the people who suffer under modern conditions, and they are entitled to know. Tell them what has happened at these conferences. Tell them—what, in fact, we are all puzzled about—what happened at Quebec. Let us know at the earliest possible moment what will have happened at Washington. Tell the people, as the Leader of the Liberal party requested the Government to do, everything possible. Let this Socialist Government, which depends upon the confidence of the people, themselves confide in the people. The crucial problem in foreign affairs nowadays, as I understand it, is the relationship of the three great Powers: America, Russia and ourselves; particularly America and ourselves, on the one hand, and Russia on the other hand. Even during the recent Debate on conditions in Europe the supreme importance of the relationship of the Western Allies to Russia came out quite clearly. Reference was there made to zoning—the zoning of Austria, Germany, Berlin—and that zoning policy quite clearly stood condemned in the opinion of this House, because it was a policy which divided up the Continent, a separatist policy where cohesion was what was required. The dreadful part of it is that this zoning policy does not stop there, it is merely a part of a bigger zoning policy—spheres of influence. The policy of spheres of influence, as I understand it, was brought into this post war world by decisions taken at the Teheran Conference. I am not blaming anybody for any decisions taken there; they were taken under the stress of war, and those at the Conference were rightfully concentrating upon winning the war at the earliest pos-  sible moment. However, the result has been that this policy of spheres of influence, designed for military purposes, for war and strategy, has, in fact, been projected into peacetime conditions and into peacetime policy. This has meant that there has been brought into our new post-war world, power politics. We are already there. We must recognise the stark fact that nowadays, however much we may talk about a United Nations Organisation and the like, we are dealing with a power politics world. The relationship of the three countries, Russia, America and ourselves, dominates every question of foreign policy. Solve that relationship and then, almost automatically, solutions will be far more easily found for all the other problems of foreign policy. Take the distress in Europe. The difficulty there has appeared again during recent Debates, and will be fresh in the memory of the House, and is a useful illustration of my theme. It is quite clear that the expulsion of German populations is due not so much to hatred and revenge for the past, as to fear and suspicion for the future. As for the urgency to have these populations expelled before this winter, nobody imagines that before this winter is through we shall be faced with a resurrected Germany as a military power in the world. The proposition has only to be stated for that to be perfectly clear. The fear and suspicion is not of Germany, at all; it is of the Western Allies. Let us be frank, and recognise that. Or look at the map. Poland, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Austria, Hungary, Greece, Palestine, Persia, India, Japan, the Pacific Bases, the Western bloc and the sterling bloc—there is hardly one problem connected with those countries and questions that is not dominated by this relationship of the three great Powers. We have heard a good deal about democracy, and the use of that word. It has been said that the difficulty has been due to the difficulty of interpretation. But the difficulty about this word, ""democracy,"" has not been due to the difficulty in interpreting the meaning into Russian and English. If that were the only difficulty it would be quickly rectified. The difficulty has been due to the fact that there has been no common meaning to interpret, the Russians intending one thing, while we intend a different   thing. The difficulty has been to arrive at any common meaning, common intention, common agreement. That is the difficulty, not the mere difficulty of interpretation. Take our own interpretation of ""democracy."" How do we interpret and apply it? Do we always apply it with the same meaning? We must frankly admit that there is some ground for the suggestion that, even for us, it has one meaning in Greece, another in Austria, and another in Bulgaria. It becomes more dogmatic the nearer you approach Russia, the nearer you get into the Russian sphere of influence. Why are we not bothering about democracy, if democracy is what we are concerned about, in friendly Turkey and Portugal? Can we honestly say that it is merely democracy that we are concerned about? Why, then, this concern about democracy in the Eastern European countries? As the Foreign Secretary said in his great speech in August—his massive speech—what Europe is concerned about now is its existence. She is concerned with food and shelter and clothing, not with politics and mental aspirations. There is an ancient saying that ""life comes before the good life.'' You must have life, before there is any possibility of its being good. You cannot establish liberty and justice except upon a foundation of order. Why then do we talk about democracy to starving chaotic people? I believe, I am sure we all know, that we have a sincere belief in democracy, a belief in that which has stood the test of time. But can we truthfully say that there is no foundation for the suggestion that we are concerned with democratic forms of government in Eastern Europe because a democratic government would have affinity with us, would be more inclined towards us than towards some country with a different form of government? To put the obverse of that: Would not the Russian form of government in the Eastern countries of Europe incline more readily towards Russia, and away from us? I am not blaming ourselves or Russia in this matter at all. So long as power politics dominate, so long as that policy calls the tune, then we must dance its grim dance. But let us realise that it is power politics. If we do not recognise the affliction we can never find the remedy. What remedy and what hope are there in President Truman's speech? I would like to comment on one or two of its points, but I will come directly to what seems to be the root of the matter—the twelfth point, to which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies) referred. The President spoke of a United Nations Organisation. What organisation is this to which he refers? He stressed, throughout his speech, the importance of sovereignty, and of preserving sovereignty, and he referred—a lawyer will appreciate this point—not to the use of joint force, but to the joint use of force. In other words, his speech does not contemplate a military command under the operation of some world organisation; the President takes the position no further than the San Francisco organisation, and what hope is there in San Francisco? San Francisco is just a repetition of Geneva, a bigger edition, of stronger paper perhaps, but essentially paper. There is no fusion of sovereignty here, no diminution of the sovereignty of any sovereign State. The organisation has no attribute of sovereignty or any quality of a State. It is merely bringing the balance of power from the Chancelleries to the conference table, and that offers no firm foundation for building the kind of world which can save us. Have we nothing to say about this? This country is not unqualified to speak in these matters. We have given self-government to the world; we are giving it economic self-government, too. We have given it representative government, free government, federalism, and by this means we have converted an Empire into a Commonwealth. Have we nothing to say on this subject? Has our genius stopped short at this stage, when the world is crying for deliverance? I believe the answer tame from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) when France was in her agony—a common State and a common citizenship. I appreciate the tremendous difficulties—ideological, religious, social, economic and political—but we live in an atomic age and the courage, imagination and creative capacity of our scientists must be matched by the same qualities in our statesmen. Scientists have given us atomic energy: statesmen must give us a world capable of holding it. What do we suggest? I suggest that the Government should keep closely in touch with opinion right through this country. For 25 years opinion in this country has been ahead of the Government. Let us now, with a Socialist Government, ensure that we have not a Government behind the people, but a Government giving a strong lead to the people. I hope the Prime Minister will consider making a declaration, if need be a unilateral declaration. President Truman has made his, and M. Molotov has made his, so why should not we make a unilateral declaration, stating to the world exactly how far we are prepared to go, and what practical steps we are prepared to take towards establishing a world commonwealth? The Prime Minister has the complete confidence of our people just as his great predecessor, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford had their confidence during his tenure of office. My right hon. Friend will go to Washington with the complete confidence of us all, irrespective of party and, irrespective of party I am sure that all wish him God-speed in his great mission.
