gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That this House takes note of the Industrial Training Levy (Road Transport) Order, 1970. I realise, in rising to make my maiden speech, that I am being rather unorthodox, and I hasten to add that I think it would be wrong of me to expect the indulgence of the House when some of the things I may say could be taken as being controversial. But then I am encouraged by the thought that my predecessor was Mr. Geoffrey Hirst, who was never orthodox. He was a good House of Commons man and a good constituency Member. If I do as well as he did, I shall be satisfied. I will say little about my constituency, because I hope to be here for many years to enlarge upon that subject. I will only say that it is not the most beautiful in the United Kingdom but that the people who reside in Bingley, Baildon and Shipley are the finest. There is a unique inheritance for me in following Geoffrey Hirst because not only do I have a certain laxity towards the Opposition Front Bench but extend it to my own as   well. Perhaps I am making a good start by opening this debate. I want the House to take note of this Order because I hope that when it is presented to us again for next year certain changes will have been made. Before I came to this House, I was involved in transport. I have had experience of the Road Transport Industry Training Board. Since I arrived here, I have had many letters from constituents, and from the letters of support from both sides of the House I can appreciate that this is a problem to all of us. It is a good thing to make clear from the beginning that one is not arguing whether there should be training or not. It is a matter of getting the best training. I believe that the Industrial Training Act, 1964, at that time was right. But we established four training boards then and now we have 28. I never envisaged that the bandwaggon would roll with such speed. How it does roll on! I wonder how many people realise the implications. Let us think about them. I am not arguing about training—it is right that we should have an adequate supply of well trained men and women, it is right that training should be improved wherever it can, and it is right that the costs should be shared as equally as possible. But the Road Transport Industry Training Board is concerned with three groups of people. The first group is those who receive training. They must feel that the training is useful, practical and will be of advantage to them. They must feel that it will enable them to do their jobs better and at the same time enhance their future prospects. The second group consists of the men or the firms who have to pay for the training, and it is right that they should feel that it is advantageous to them and their firms. The third group is the people who do the training, and this is where we really come to the great weakness. They must have the confidence of the first two groups I have mentioned and it must be felt that they are serving the best interests of the industry they are supposed to lead or to serve. On these counts, I am sorry to have to say that the Road Transport Industry Training Board has failed. I want to list one or two failures. The board will argue,  ""But we have trained 35 per cent. of the people who come within the scope of the board"". That is more than 300,000 people. But what have they been trained to do? Is it training for training's sake? This, I am afraid, is the situation we find ourselves in. There is too much of, ""How much can we claim back in grant and let us fit training to it?"" instead of, ""How necessary is the training?"" I want to quote my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Social Services who said that the strategy of the 1964 Act was right but he added: But in parts the idea has run riot. We never dreamt of courses for petrol pump attendants. Bureaucracies have grown up. Grant-hunting is a new management skill. We shall look to the boards to do only what is really necessary. Is the tail wagging the dog? Let us remember that this is only supposed to be a means to an end and not an end in itself. My criticism of the board is that, firstly, it has no control of costs. The red flag was flying in 1968, when it was £2½ million in the red. Did that deter the board? What happened in the following year? It was £3½ million in the red. The liabilities of the board today are £6 million in excess of its assets. How can the board say to any businessman in any small firm, ""Take guidance from us and we will put you on your feet?"" We know where any firm will end up if it takes guidance from an organisation like that. Secondly, there is concern about the type of training being offered, the ever-increasing recommendations from the board, the different courses it offers. It is all totally unrealistic. There is an obsession with off-the-job training. I agree that with certain jobs it is necessary to take people from their normal place of work, but is it necessary for someone to be sent 200 miles away to learn how to unload a vehicle and how to stack things so that the top box does not fall off? The industry did not do so badly in the old days—I speak from experience—[Laughter.] It is all very well for the hon. Member for Nuneaton (Mr. Leslie Huckfield) to laugh, but the industry had to find people to do this work, and if a businessman could not find a driver to drive his truck, his business ground to a   halt. To have a licence to drive a public service vehicle for 40 years, one has to conform to the law and take a stringent test. I know, because I took it and failed. I did not think that that system was all that bad. I turn to the subject of staffing. In 1968 we were told that there would be no increase in the administrative staff, but by two years later there was a 50 per cent. increase. So the story has gone on—extravagant exercises in public relations and in publications. For instance, there are forecourt attendants—in Yorkshire we call them petrol pump staff. For their training there is a 12-page training booklet, a 41-page instructors' guide, eight easy-to-learn booklets of ten pages each and eight plastic memory aid cards. After all this I should expect a clean windscreen. With all this, the paper work grows. It is not just the levy which is the evil of all this. The evil concerns the hidden hours taken up with filling in forms. I have a letter from a firm not far from where I live and which I have known for years. It employs 35 staff and owns 18 vehicles and nine coaches. It has operated 20 training programmes with five for the office staff. It has written to me to say that it intends to discontinue the programme and passing the cost of the R.T.I.T.B. to its customers, having paid £1,087 in levy for this year. It is right to do so, because it found that it was uneconomic to pay a training officer out of its own pocket. What a nonsense all this is! This leads me to two main criticisms. The first is the inability of small firms to benefit from this training board. They are defeated by the red tape. It should not be thought that this is just a small matter, for 52,000 firms are involved employing 900,000 employees. Firms employing ten workers or fewer represent 78 per cent. of the firms in the industry, which means that 30,000 firms have 10 employees or fewer. To remove all these firms from the scope of the levy all we have to provide is that firms paying emoluments of less than £5,000 a year, approximately £100 a week as a wages bill, will be removed from paying the levy, and overnight 30,000 firms will find that they have none of this red tape to cope with. And what will this cost the board? It will cost £420,000 out of a  total levy of £17½ million. Of that £420,000, £200,000 goes on administration, staff and facilities. For heaven's sake, why has this not been done years ago? The biggest complaint of all—the postbag of all hon. Members present will confirm this—is with the levy grant system. The concern can be understood when one remembers that this board levies the third highest levy of all the 28 boards. Half of those boards, approximately 14, have to collect only 50 per cent. of the R.T.I.T.B. levy, so we cannot claim that they are efficient. We are not talking about chickenfeed here. In the coming year, the board expects to raise £20 million. It is no wonder that people and firms are bitter about this. Let me move on to the system of collecting grant within this board. The biggest complaint is that the diverse industries are not satisfied with the present system, that they are all lumped together, and it is assumed that their training needs are the same. Nothing could be further from the truth. The road haulage industry is incensed because it only gets back half in grant of what it pays in levy. The Passenger Vehicle Operators' Association is on the wrong side. The motor agents do quite well, but whether they are in debit or in credit, none of them wants anything to do with the board in its present form. They are unanimous in their condemnation, and they want to have a complete change. There are so many examples of injustice. I have here a letter from a Hampshire firm of motor cycle agents. They are most concerned that they have been asked several times for payment of levies. They only sell motor cycles— Should any of our staff attend these courses, they would no doubt return as trained motor car storemen or mechanics. This would in turn encourage them to leave the motor cycle industry, at our expense. The effect of this would be similar to a member of the Conservative Party being compelled to pay a levy to finance the funds of the Labour Party … under threat that refusal would mean prosecution. We have written to the board informing them that we would have no objection to subsidising a training course, provided it was to the motor cycle industry's advantage as a whole, but until this comes about, we have no intention of meeting any of the payment demands. They are right to say this. We must get down to making the training fit the industries. I do not argue from the point of view that these boards should be dispensed with overnight. There is widespread dissatisfaction, which we all accept, but in the case of this board, what we have to do is to decentralise, and there are three obvious industries to centre the new organisation upon. These are the three which form advisory committees under the existing board, the road haulage industry, the retail motor industry and the passenger road transport industry. They would automatically be responsible for raising their own levy and for deciding how grants are given. There is nothing new in this. The Wool, Flax and Jute Textile Board already does this, and it works. It has 18 different sections and it levies what it needs to do the necessary training. It is important that these boards should be run by people within the industry and that we get the training that is necessary. This interim measure—it is only an interim measure—I hope will get us back to the idea of thinking that training should go back to the practical people who are involved in these industries. At the end of the day, with certain safeguards, the Government should be able to opt out. What is wrong about that? We all want to be cost-effective. If the industry is being milked because it is paying excessive levies, it has that bit less in its coffers. I hope that hon. Members on both sides of the House can see that. There are many ideas to develop. I believe that, if a firm is doing training which is acceptable and successful, it should be able to opt out of paying levy. There are some big firms who have done very nicely out of training, and it is time that we called a halt to it. Surely it was never the intention of the previous Conservative Government that a profit should be made out of training. I am sure that other hon. Members can confirm that large firms in many other industries have gone hell-bent to make a profit out of training. That is regrettable, because it was never our intention. If training is worth while, it is degrading to look at it in this light. In the Gracious Speech, we were promised a review of training boards. I appreciate that it is not yet ready, but I hope that my hon. Friend the Minister of State will say a little about the future  hopes and that we shall not see a continuation of the system which operates now. There are too many sacred cows in this country. I do not want to see training boards getting into that category. We have to look for a new concept of training which, after all, is a partnership. No industry would become involved in training unless it looked at all the implications. That means getting the trade unions involved, and getting those others involved who know what the job is about. I hope that we can look forward to my hon. Friend relieving us of many of these anxieties. If we are presented with a similar Statutory Instrument next year, many of us will not be as happy as we have been tonight.
