gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, That this House, recognising that equal treatment of all citizens under the law depends on upholding the tradition of police impartiality and that effective policing depends on successful community relations, commends the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis; welcomes the efforts made by the Metropolitan Police to work more closely with the community, particularly by returning more constables to the beat; notes with grave concern the activities of those who, in their campaign to bring the police under political control, seek to undermine police authority in a manner directly contrary to the democratic principle of independent policing and wilfully unresponsive to public disquiet over the rising crime rate; and urges Her Majesty's Government to give statutory encouragement to genuine efforts at community liaison which can promote public confidence in the police and facilitate the co-operation necessary for the improved detection and prevention of crime. I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for the opportunity of making my first address to the House. I am aware that the privilege of making a maiden speech on a balloted motion has not been exercised for 24 years. Newly elected Members are rightly cautious about plunging feet first into the complexities of the procedure of the House without first thoroughly testing the water. However, while I approach this occasion with considerable trepidation, I believe strongly that this issue is of the utmost importance. I would not wish to continue without paying tribute to my distinguished and learned predecessor, Sir Derek Walker-Smith. This is not simply in keeping with the traditions of the House; it is a genuine mark of respect to someone who was a vigorous ambassador of his constituency, a brilliant orator and a respected Member. While I hope to follow the high standards set by Sir Derek, I fear that his legal expertise will remain lost to the House. The constituency of Broxbourne, which I have the honour to represent, has a reputation for excellent local facilities and a good measure of unspoiled Hertfordshire countryside, and includes part of the Lea valley regional park. Our proximity to London has attracted many national companies to locate their headquarters alongside a long-established horticultural industry. From foundries to flowers, we represent the best traditions of a mixed economy. However, we have one skeleton in the cupboard. In the 17th century Colonel Hamilton Rumbold, who is, I trust, no relation of my hon. Friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden (Mrs. Rumbold), devised a plot to assassinate King Charles II, who was to ride through Hoddesdon on his way back from Newmarket. Fortunately, the royal party returned earlier than expected, the plans were discovered and the conspirators brought to justice. I reassure the House that my constituents have since shown themselves to be better disposed towards the authorities, and have learned to make their protests more conventionally. I look forward with pleasure to serving both a beautiful and an industrial part of our country for many years. Law and order has been at the front of the public mind this week. I make no apologies for prolonging that debate and for focusing again on those who are responsible for enforcing law and order in our society. The recent report by the Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis has wider implications for policing, because it concerns those of my constituents who come under the protection of the  Metropolitan police, because it is a sign of the difficulties in policing in other parts of the country and because it confirms my experience as a member of the Greater London council. In his report, the Commissioner, Sir Kenneth Newman, highlighted the unique difficulties of policing an area with the cultural and social diversities of London. Most of those difficulties have been with us for a long time. However, one new departure is mentioned in the report: The political climate in some parts of London is inimical to progress in policing. Behind Sir Kenneth's comment — restrained by the neutral stand that he must take—is a justified fear about the future of an effective and independent police force in our society and about a sustained campaign to undermine police authority and morale, to engineer a crisis in policing and, thereby, to justify assuming political control over the essential elements of police operations, administration and finance. In the time allowed to me I can only briefly describe this disturbing trend, but I shall give the greater weight of my argument to the detrimental effect that it will undoubtedly have on the equal treatment of all citizens under the law. The GLC proposes to assume control over police administration and finances and effectively to give control of police operations to the London boroughs. Few ratepayers in London would voluntarily surrender any more financial responsibilities to the GLC. The recent record of that authority hardly recommends it as a keeper of the public purse. The proposal to establish political control over police operations and appointments is even more insidious. The decision when and how to deploy police forces must be taken with the upmost impartiality and professional skill. It is not a power that can be exercised by a politically controlled police committee where political considerations could outweigh professional judgment. Similarly, the promotion of police officers must be a matter of merit and not political expediency. It is claimed that all that will be done in the name of democratic accountability — pleasant-sounding words, but ones that, in reality, would mean nothing other than thinly disguised political control. I shall not pretend that all is right with the Metropolitan police. I should like to see better community relations. Successful experiments such as the borough liaison committee in Lambeth should be extended to all boroughs and given statutory backing. Powers of search and arrest are in a chaotic state and should be clarified and modernised. I hope that they will be corrected in the forthcoming Police and Criminal Evidence Bill. I am appalled at the anachronism whereby a man can be arrested for causing a breach of the peace but not for indecent assault. I also wish to improve police resources for the detection and prevention of street crime and theft. However, a crisis in policing is more likely to be created by political ambition than by the facts of the Commissioner's report. Progress in policing depends on public co-operation. Lord Scarman said that the police enforce the law on behalf of the community and that they therefore depend on the support of the community. Sir Kenneth Newman in his report argued that progress in crime prevention would depend on the co-operation of the public. I submit that, far from supporting the police in their work, the GLC effectively is obstructing progress for political ends in a manner that wilfully disregards obvious   public concern about rising crime rates. The GLC's objective is to promote a crisis in police morale and public confidence so that, as the wolf in sheep's clothing, it may nominate itself as a candidate for controlling the Metropolitan police. Attempts to exert political control over the Metropolitan police mean that effective policing cannot be achieved in the present political climate in London and that the tradition of an independent and impartial police force may be in serious danger. The British people are not accustomed to the idea of political policemen. That damages the credibility of the police in the eyes of the public. I have no need to remind Opposition Members that it was Karl Marx who said that control of the police was essential to destroy the existing order of society. The road to power in eastern Europe has been through that route. The House has long defended the distinction between the powers of the elected legislatures and those of the judiciary and the agencies of law enforcement. That delicate balance of the constitution is no historical accident. It is the conscious and deliberate expression of the right of every citizen to be treated equally under the law. Indeed, it is the essense of democracy. I can think of no greater threat to democracy than the political erosion of police impartiality. I feel sure that this view and the sentiments expressed in the motion will commend themselves to the vast majority of hon. Members and to the people living and working in the Metropolitan police area.
