gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I thank you for calling me so early in the debate, thus sparing me a long period of suspense whilst waiting to make my maiden speech. I ask for the customary indulgence of the House. When the hon. Member for Widnes (Mr. MacColl) opened the debate for the Opposition and mentioned the Isle of Wight and the increase of 2s. 8d. in the county rate, for one horrible moment I thought that the hon. Gentleman intended to make my speech for me. I thank him for not doing so. I wish, first, to pay a tribute to my predecessor Sir Peter Macdonald, who represented the Isle of Wight in the House for thirty-six years. Sir Peter Macdonald, through his loyal service to the House, the country and my constituency has earned the very high respect of all. I should like to wish him a long, happy and well-deserved retirement. Many maiden speakers have claimed that their constituencies are the most beautiful in the British Isles. I, without any shame and without any doubt whatsoever in my mind, claim the same distinction for the Isle of Wight. It is rightly known as ""The Garden Isle"", and the motto on our county coat of arms is: All this beauty is of God"". Like other offshore islands in a far-off part of the world, the Isle of Wight frequently receives a bombardment from the mainland—not in the form of shells, but in the form of millions of letters from people on the mainland wishing to come to the island for their holidays. It is worthy of note that many of my right hon. and hon. Friends and many   right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite regularly spend their holidays on the island. There have been occasions in August when there have been sufficient members of Her Majesty's Government in my home village of Bembridge to form a Cabinet quorum. On one occasion, several years ago, when the party opposite was in power, it made a decision which had my wholehearted support, namely, to hold weekend Cabinet conferences in the very beautiful town of Shanklin. I say to any hon. Members on either side of the House who have not visited my constituency that a very warm welcome awaits them when they decide to do so. I support the Government Amendment, but I confess that when the reorganisation of local government finance was first under discussion I had many misgivings concerning the effect of the general grant. I am satisfied that for the country as a whole the general grant system is preferable to the old system of percentage grants. It has the merit of enabling the Minister to budget for a fixed amount of expenditure, and it should stop any tendency on the part of local authorities to spend unwisely. Under the percentage grant system, when it was known that certain local expenditure automatically attracted a percentage grant, there was always the temptation in any case of doubt to decide on the expenditure. I have been chairman of my county finance committee for five years. Last Wednesday, I had the unpleasant job of explaining the 2s. 8d. increase in the Isle of Wight County Council rate. In the old days of the percentage grant, whenever opinion was divided on whether the proposed expenditure was justified, one was always very tempted to decide in favour of spending, on the basis that the Government paid 60 per cent., or 50 per cent. in any event. However, as the Minister told us, the proportion of expenditure borne by the Exchequer is still the same as it was under the old percentage grant. The total amount in aggregate, taking all authorities, is more than it previously was, but I have no doubt that certain authorities are adversely affected by the working of the new formula, and my authority is obviously one of them. I suggest two adjustments to my right hon. Friend's general grant formula which are most necessary and which would not increase the total cost of the whole grant, but would vary the weighting as between different authorities. The first point I wish to make is with regard to all counties like my own, which have static or slightly declining populations. There is provision in the general grant order for calculating a supplementary grant in cases where there is a substantial variation in the population of a local authority. That is very fair and very reasonable, but there is no formula in this grant to enable allowances to be made for counties and boroughs with static or slightly declining populations. That causes very great hardship because, as the total amount of the general grant is fixed and as the general trend of the national population is to increase, if a particular authority is remaining static it naturally follows that in each succeeding year that authority must draw a smaller proportion of the total amount of grant paid to all. In the Isle of Wight that has had the effect of increasing our rate—though not entirely on that one point—by 2s. 8d. It means that where the national average percentage of grant to total expenditure is 55·7 per cent., the average in the Isle of Wight is 48·8 per cent., a difference of 7 per cent. That arises because of this static or slightly declining population, and it will get steadily worse from year to year. It appears to me that all authorities having this problem of static or declining population will have this same difficulty. I suggest to my right hon. Friend that it would be a perfectly reasonable adjustment to the formula to make some allowance for that fact. My second point concerns local authorities, such as my own, where the percentage of retired people over 65 years of age is in excess of the national average. The percentage of such people in the Isle of Wight is, in fact, much more than double the national average. Hon. Members will be aware that there is a supplementary grant of £·45, that is, 9s., for every old person over 65 years of age and for every child under five years of age. It so happens that the cost of old people's welfare, which we all realise is yearly an increasing burden, works out on the Isle of Wight—I am quite certain that we on the island are not exceptional in this matter; it would   be the average cost all over the country—at £3 10s. per year per head of population over 65 years of age. The grant which all of us get is 9s. Therefore, it is costing just over £3 per head for old people over 65, which is borne by the ratepayers. If every local authority had the same average percentage of old people, it would not matter whether the grant were 9s., 18s., or 30s. because everyone would be bearing the same proportion. But for authorities like my own, which has more than twice the national average of people over 65 years of age, it means that for every single one of them over that age the ratepayer is bearing an extra £3 per head per annum. That, again, has a very big effect on the rate increase. I suggest to my right hon. Friend the Minister that these are two matters in which he could very fairly consider making some adjustment to the formula to help authorities faced with these problems. He could do it without increasing the aggregate amount of grant paid to the country as a whole. One final point concerning the rate burden generally. It is, as the hon. Gentleman opposite said, becoming an increasingly crippling burden for some people. I am thinking particularly of people on fixed incomes. Many of these people either pay no Income Tax at all, because their income is too low, or they get marginal relief on their small income. But whenever there is an increase in the rates they have to pay it. We have a mass of these people in my constituency. As I have said, we have double the national average of people over 65 years of age. I am not so much concerned with council house tenants, in whose case it is possible to have a differential rent scheme. I am concerned with the people living in their own houses, who have no means of avoiding these rate increases. This rate increase of 2s. 8d. in the £ on the Isle of Wight will cost the owner of a modest house with a rateable value of £26 a year an extra 1s. 4d. a week. If an old lady or old gentleman or an old married couple have to find that extra 1s. 4d. a week for rates, then, obviously, they have to go without something else. We can expect the rates to increase indefinitely from year to year. We have the Albemarle Report, the Crowther Report, the Roberts Report,  the new responsibilities in the field of mental health—they have already been mentioned—and the steady expansion of the education service. This expansion is going on and must go on. No one would wish to stop it. But we must do something to relieve these people who, quite definitely, cannot bear this burden. There are several ways of doing it. I suggest to my right hon. Friend that the best way would be to have a differential rate scheme. Of course, it would be a very complicated thing to work out, but it would be one way of doing it. Possibly, too, we could have some form of marginal relief. If something on these lines is not done, I am quite certain that at a later date we shall have to consider removing some of these services, which are national services, from the local charge to the charge of the central Exchequer. I hope that very soon we shall have an opportunity of discussing these matters, and I appeal to my right hon. Friend seriously to consider the two adjustments to the formula which I have mentioned. I thank the House for its very kind tolerance.
