gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with feelings of great humility and considerable nervousness that I rise to address the House for the first time—feelings which, I must admit, have certainly not been lessened over the last few weeks as I have listened to numerous other hon. Members making fluent and cogent maiden speeches. They are certainly not lessened by those we have heard already today. I am very conscious of the fact, in deciding to speak on this issue, that there is a tradition that maiden speakers should be non-controversial. I hope that I interpret that tradition correctly in saying that I consider it to be limited to matters of party political controversy. While I am quite sure that what I say will not necessarily be acceptable to all hon. Members, I believe that this issue cuts right across the normal division of party opinion and that words which, to some hon. Members, will seem extremely controversial, may to others, on both sides, appear, I hope, to be persuasive, reasonable, and wholly non-controversial. It is normal in one's maiden speech to refer to one's predecessor. I shall do that today not merely because it is usual,   but because it is with the greatest pleasure that I pay tribute to my predecessor. Mr. Denis Vosper, as he then was, represented Runcorn from the formation of the division. I believe that he served it with dignity and honour. I know that he was extremely popular and well-respected in the division and I am equally convinced, judging by remarks I have heard from hon. Members on both sides, that he was also respected and well-liked in this House. Mr. Vosper had a very rapid rise to governmental office which was very tragically cut short by his own illness. I am quite sure that all hon. Members are delighted that, now fully restored to health, he is able to take part in the debates in another place and to apply his qualities of experience, knowledge, interest and kindness to his most important task as Chairman of the National Assistance Board. There is, of course, another tradition—that one should refer to one's division. That I do not propose to do, because I do not see that the issue before us refers to my division any more than it does to any of the other 629 divisions. I will. therefore, limit myself to saying that I am proud and honoured to represent Runcorn and I hope that at the appropriate time I may be able to draw the attention of the Government and of hon. Members to its various needs in education, housing and road construction. I wish to speak in support of the Bill. I realise that it is a great responsibility to take part in this debate on an issue on which people outside the House hold very strong views on one side or the other, but I was delighted to hear the hon. Member for Nelson and Colne (Mr. Sydney Silverman) reject the idea that there should be some form of referendum on this issue. If I understand the constitutional position correctly, we are sent here not as delegates but as representatives, and I believe that, although we must weigh, as I weigh, I hope, the views expressed outside the House, in the end we must make up our own minds and vote according to our own judgment and conscience. I support the Bill because of my belief in the sanctity of human life. It is because I believe that it is wrong to take human life that I believe that it is equally wrong  whether that life is taken by the individual or by the State. Following the premise that the taking of human life is wrong, I believe that the State, acting on behalf of all of us as members of society, can only be justified in inflicting the death penalty upon a fellow member of society if it can be shown that that act is necessary for the safety and security of society. I do not believe that revenge is a proper motive on which to conduct our penal code. Neither do I believe that the taking of the life of a condemned and convicted murderer in any way does or, indeed, should lessen the grief and anguish which is felt by and for the family of that man's victim. Of course, I appreciate that retribution is a necessary part of punishment. Of course, I appreciate that it is a proper motive of punishment that society should show its abhorrence of the act committed by the criminal. But I believe that that can be adequately achieved by the arrest, conviction and sentence to life imprisonment of that man. Only if it can be shown that the death penalty is a unique deterrent, and that, more than any other form of punishment, it deters people from murder, would we be justified in retaining it. We must all remember that the justification for the taking of life must be proved to be necessary by those who wish to take it. It is abundantly clear that capital punishment is not the unique deterrent and cannot be proved to be so. I do not want to get involved in many figures this evening, but it is clear from research that in all the countries which have abolished capital punishment murder has never increased. As was so powerfully said by my right hon. Friend the Member for Hampstead (Mr. Brooke) that has not happened in this country since 1957. We have not had a greater proportion of murders, still between three and four per million of the population, and nor have we had a greater increase in the proportion of non-capital as against capital murder. One point was made by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Epsom (Sir P. Rawlinson) which I should like to take up. In an argument which, frankly, I was not able to follow at that stage, he said that nothing could deter the poisoner. I would have   thought that if there was one class of murderer of whom it could be said that he would be deterred by capital punishment, if capital punishment were a unique deterrent, that person would be the poisoner. Yet in 1957 we removed the poisoner from the class of people who could be sentenced to death, and so far as I am aware we have not had an increase of murder by poisoning since that time. There may have been many reasons, but I do not wish to go into them this evening and bore the House by talking of them at length. I will only say that I am convinced that there is no evidence that the retention of the death penalty is necessary for the safety of society, and as I believe that the taking of life is wrong I feel that the Bill should be passed and capital punishment abolished. Let me deal very briefly with two arguments which the retentionists often advance, one of which was certainly advanced by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Epsom. The first is that the abolition of the death penalty would lead to the carrying of arms by professional criminals. I believe that this fear, which I accept as genuine, is baseless. The hon. and learned Member for Dulwich (Mr. S. C. Silkin) referred to the findings of the Royal Commission on Capital Punishment. I do not believe that there is a likelihood that the abolition of capital punishment would lead to an increase in the carrying of arms. The real deterrent for murder, as with any other crime, is the certainty or likelihood of arrest and conviction. The House could well spend some time debating why it is that the rate of apprehension should be about 40 per cent. for all crimes whereas for murder it is more than 90 per cent. In these figures may be found why the great mail train robbers did not kill anybody while carrying out their dastardly crime—not the fear that they would hang, but the knowledge that if they used such violence the likelihood of their arrest and conviction would be far greater. The other argument is that there is no adequate alternative to the death penalty. This case was fully and brilliantly argued by the right hon. Member for Hampstead. We do not know what is the length of a life sentence imposed since the 1957 Act. The period of nine years is meaningless as  an average when it is remember that it is concerned with many cases of people who since 1957, would never have been convicted of murder and, having been convicted of manslaughter, would probably have received far shorter determinate sentence. I accept that the passing of the Bill will mean longer sentences, much more than nine years, and in some cases what they say—life imprisonment. I hope that the House will consider the whole subject of the treatment of long-term prisoners, realising as we must, that most of them will return to society at some stage and that we must see that they come out not having rotted in prison, not having lost the ability to work and to earn their own livings. We could do much to improve the standards for long-term prisoners to the benefit of society as a whole. I have spoken far longer than I intended. I have done my best to keep emotion out of what I believe to be the most emotional of subjects. I thank the House for having done me the courtesy of listening to this my maiden speech. What I have tried to do is to express the reasons why I for one, with great willingness, will go into the Lobby in support of the Bill this evening.
