gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg the House to extend to me the indulgence which it is its custom to show on these occasions. It is all the more difficult for me to make this naturally difficult speech having to follow the right hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. P. Thorneycroft), whose learned and  authoritative remarks will make mine seem all the more jejune. What I am to speak of cannot by any stretch of the imagination be described as non-controversial. If, therefore, I say anything which exceeds the limits of the indulgence which the House is prepared to grant on these occasions, I must apologise in advance. I must say that I have been encouraged in this adventurous, not to say foolhardy, course by the uproarious welcome I received when I first entered this House and for which I should like to thank Members of all parties. This reception has led me to suppose that perhaps my words might be received with the same courteous and tolerant silence as my first appearance. Perhaps the best thing that could be said about the Motion before us is that it has led us to discuss and to face the real and serious position in which we find ourselves today. As a result of this, the working population of London has to trudge to work each day because of a dispute between two parties whose common duty it is to serve that public. It was interesting to note that in the speech made by the right hon. Member for Blyth (Mr. Robens) reference to that public was altogether omitted. A dispute, this is, which was in the end reduced to a difference of 2s. a week, about ten cigarettes a week, or less than 1 per cent. of the average bus driver's wage. One cannot help thinking that this gap might have been bridged, this very small gap, given a little more ingenuity, a little more elasticity and a little imagination on both sides, and given a little more political leadership on the part of Her Majesty's Government. After all, the original difference was between 25s. and nothing. Having said that, and having said the part which Her Majesty's Government have not played, I must say one or two things about the way in which the union has handled this affair, things with which most people outside this House who are not closely committed to the political doctrines of any particular party would agree. It is very difficult for anybody to defend those who are prepared to go to arbitration and then refuse to accept the award of the arbitrator; nor do I believe that it is any defence to say that the arbitrator has been nobbled or that the   atmosphere has been poisoned. One does not go to an arbitrator who is corrupt. It makes a mockery of the whole system of arbitration to go to court on the condition that the court finds in your favour. It has been said by a number of people, both in the Press and elsewhere, that this is a strike that nobody wants. Certainly the walker does not want it, and it is difficult to believe that London Transpot Executive wants it. The only question, therefore, is whether the busmen themselves want it. Whether there are doubts about this or not, they could have been settled with the greatest ease and dispelled had the strike been preceded by a ballot. The cases which have occurred in the last few years when individuals who have not conformed with their colleagues in these matters have been penalised make it seem more important and more desirable than ever before that this advance in trade union practice should occur. As to the part which the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour has played, I find it difficult to see how he could have intervened between the two parties after the announcement of the Industrial Court's award and up to Sunday midnight, when it was still open to the two parties to accept it. After Sunday midnight, as Sir John Elliot indicated, the situation changed, very much, let it be said, for the worse. It is, I presume, open to the right hon. Gentleman to intervene now at any moment when he thinks that his intervention will be effective. I do not think anyone other than he can choose that moment or take that decision on his behalf. He is like a general in a battle, and we can judge him only by results. There is one other rather wider consideration to which the present dispute and the possibility of another dispute on the railways draw attention at this moment; it is the basis on which wages are to be settled in nationalised industries which lose money. This is a question which we have to face and a problem which has not been solved since the war. London Transport Executive has a statutory duty to pay its way. In spite of this, between 1948 and 1956, its deficit amounted to approximately £16 million. In 1957, it broke even on its trading account, but this was, I think, an unearned increment of Suez. In 1958,  another deficit is expected. Between 1950 and 1958, the number of passengers carried dropped by more than 15 per cent. I think I am right in saying that every year since 1950 there has been a wage rise in this industry. This year, the Industrial Court decided that this rise should be 8s. 6d. for central area drivers and conductors. It is a misfortune that Industrial Courts, when making awards of this sort, do not state their reasons. That 8s. 6d. sounds an arbitrary sum, the justice of which must be obscure to everybody, and, in particular, to the persons to whom it is offered. It is a kind of metaphysical fair wage. If the Industrial Court were allowed to state the reasons for which its awards were given, it might be possible to build up a body of case law which would be of considerable value in the future in cases of this sort. At present, we have no such case law. Broadly speaking, there are only two criteria by which, put in rather lurid terms, we can judge whether a wage rise is justified or not in an industry of this sort. There is the ordinary competitive criteria according to which the wage increase can be given only if there are profits or prospects of profits out of which the wages can be paid. Alternatively, London Transport might be regarded as a public service rather like the Metropolitan Police. It could be instructed to give certain services to the public, and the taxpayer would have to pay for them, to whatever cost they mounted. The present position is an unhappy compromise between those two extremes. No one would suggest that those two alternatives should be followed rigidly or without any compromise, but surely more emphasis should be laid upon the importance of nationalised industries paying their way. In accordance with this, wage claims should be judged in the light of the following two principles: wages should obviously be related to productivity. It is clearly difficult in the case of an industry such as transport to increase productivity without larger buses, heavier traffic, or something of that sort, which the average worker can hardly control. On the other hand, most people would agree that in some sense the prosperity of each person in this country should be related to the prosperity of all and that therefore the quickest growing industries should not receive the whole of the net   increase in productivity which they have earned and that the slower growing industries, such as the transport industry, should be allowed wage increases in step with the increase in national productivity as a whole. The second and simpler principle is surely whether or not there is a shortage of labour in the industry concerned. In the case of London Transport, it is known that there was a shortage of drivers and conductors and trolley-bus drivers and conductors in the central area—a shortage, it has been said, of 2,695. It therefore seems that there was a valid claim for an increase among these men, as the Court admitted. It would also seem that the London Transport Executive might have been wise to have offered these men an increase before a demand was made by the union for that increase. And if it could be shown that the Government prevented the London Transport Executive from making such an offer, then indeed the Government should be condemned. The union, however, has argued its claim without reference to any of the criteria which I have mentioned but largely by reference to the cost of living and to conditions in 1939. The sincerity of its emphasis on the cost of living is rendered much less convincing by its refusal to relate wages ""up and down"" to the cost of living index and by its refusal to argue its claim in the light of the economic situation in which this country finds itself today. After all, there is a possibility that in the coming months prices will drop, and this surely is a prospect which hon. Members of all parties must most devoutly hope will be vouchsafed to us. But if the unions insist on regarding money wages as more important than real wages, and if the present strike were to be successful and were to lead in the coming months to other successful wage claims, then I believe that next October the unions might find that their policies had damaged not only their own reputation but also the interests of their members and of their country. I referred earlier to what I described as the political weakness of the Government's leadership in this matter. What I meant was this: I believe that the country is facing a very critical situation at  present, but I do not think that it is in any way aware of it. If the Government have an economic policy, the country does not know or understand what it is. I think that a Government which claims that it will govern, cost what it may, must explain to the people and the country the direction in which it is governing and the end of that government. I sincerely believe that large numbers of ordinary working people in the country genuinely think that an attack is being made on their standard of living, and I believe that the country would be better served, if instead of making speeches on how to keep the Socialists out, Government spokesmen made speeches explaining their economic policy to the people of this country and related it to the problems and the opportunities that confront us. I believe that the bus workers and the railway workers have been convinced that they have cause to be frightened of the Government's policies. I believe that they are bewildered by the Government's policies, because, like many other people, they are ignorant of the Government's intentions.
