gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, stand much in need of the kindness which the House generously gives to those who address it for the first time. On a personal note, perhaps I may be allowed to recall that my father's arms are on one of the walls of this House, and I represent the fourth generation to serve here. I come here from the City of Bristol. We were made a separate county in the reign of King Edward III, about whom we heard only two days ago. We have sent here from Bristol many eminent men, from Edmund Burke in the eighteenth century to Sir Stafford Cripps and Colonel Oliver Stanley in our own day. This Bill will greatly interest people in the City of Bristol, because Bristol was one of the pioneers in the trustee savings bank movement, and the trustee savings banks may well be affected by its provisions. There are in Bristol many people earning good amounts who, I am sure, would like to avail themselves of the opportunity to receive their wages in forms other than cash. I was very glad to hear the hon. Member for Rotherham (Mr. Jack Jones) say the same; he knows many people in his constituency who would wish to hold bank accounts. The need for the Bill arises from the higher wages which, happily, are being paid today. Hon. Members in all parts of the House will probably agree that, at any time up to 1939, weekly wage earners were paid far too little. The average wage then was, perhaps, no more than £3 a week. In those days, there was no question at all of people wanting to be paid their wages other than in cash. They needed the cash at once so that they could turn it into the necessaries of life as quickly as they possibly could. Those were the days when pawnbrokers flourished much more than they do now, when people used to take their Sunday suits to the pawnbroker on Thursday and redeem them on the Saturday. Happily, those days are gone. Today the average wage is about £13 a week.   I know that that means that there are many who receive much less than £13 a week, but there are many who receive a good deal more. The £20-a-week man is quite common I was reading the other day about a foreman steel erector who was called by his friends the ""£100-a-week foreman."" It is surely possible now for people to establish a reserve of savings out of their wages, to have an account in a bank or elsewhere, and to give an order that their earnings should be transferred regularly into that account. I should not like it to be thought that, in speaking of the higher earnings which prevail today, I am satisfied with the level of earnings which many people have. Many are still far from well off, but I hope that their earnings will rise as the productiveness of their work increases. As we move towards a classless society, what we want to do, surely, is to equalise—if I may put it in this way—the position of the £20-a-week man and the position of the £1,000-a-year man. As my hon. Friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford (Mr. K. Lewis) said, we should reduce the distinction between those who are counted as staff and those who are not. The method of payment is one of the points of distinction, and this the Bill can make disappear. I hope, as my hon. Friend does, that, along with the disappearance of that distinction, we shall witness the disappearance of other distinctions in treatment during sickness, hours of work, and so forth. The Bill will help savings. From every-day life we all know that money in the pocket is almost as good as gone, but some people still have a kind of puritanical scruple against taking money on of a bank account. I am sure that the Bill will encourage many more people to have banking accounts. One convenience which I am sure that they will find is that they will make their periodical payments in respect of electricity, gas or the telephone by cheque and they will find that they will effect great savings in time and trouble compared with the method of putting coins in to a meter or making a journey personally to hand cash over the counter. I read the other day that in the United Slates of America no less than 80 per cent. of the families use banking accounts, whereas here the figure is no  more than 30 per cent., which shows, I think, that we have plenty of leeway to make up and that there is plenty of scope for more extensive use of our banks. I agree, as other hon. Members have said, that this may mean that the banks will have to change their hours, but I also feel sure that they will welcome that opportunity. No one expects any striking changes from the Bill overnight, but we do expect a slow and steady progress towards a state of affairs where people will stand more firmly on their own feet in the knowledge that they have something put by, which will give them more independence, security and happiness. I think that another advantage which will flow from the Bill is that there will be a saving of the time spent in moving coins and notes to places of employment, to say nothing of the discouragement of the smash and grab criminal. The really agreeable feature of the Bill is that no one is to be compelled to do anything which he does not want to do. Many of us would wish that feature to be included in many other Bills. I was struck by the point of my right hon. Friend the Minister that the misgivings of some shopkeepers may he found to be misplaced, because the man who wants to turn his wages quickly into cash need never depart from the present method by which he receives cash from his employers. I can foresee the time when people will be paid at rather longer intervals of time. In the same way as the council house tenant today pays his rent fortnightly in many cases instead of weekly, I think that people may request that their wages should be paid fortnightly or even monthly directly into accounts in their own names. Some people have said that the keynote of the work of our present Parliament is that we should bring up to date parts of the fabric of our social legislation to accord more closely with the needs of our time. I believe that the social historians of the future may regard this Bill as a notable and significant example of that work.
