gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with trepidation and ask for the traditional indulgence of the House. In the course of the last 18 months I have had the honour of commanding an infantry battalion in sixteen operations, and anyone who has had that experience will be familiar with the agonies of apprehension before and after zero hour, but, Mr. Speaker, I am convinced that, for sheer misery, there is nothing to touch the suspense of waiting to catch your eye for the first time. I wish to speak upon the first subject on the agenda of the Prime Minister's talks with President Truman—atomic energy—and in doing so, I wish to place before the House the point of view of the scientists who have been most closely connected with the discovery, and who have had longer to consider these problems than either politicians or the public. It is no exaggeration to say that many, if not most, of the physicists who discovered and developed nuclear energy, both American and British, are profoundly worried about the way in which this matter is apparently being handled. I do not doubt that much of this uneasiness would pass, if both Governments could   see their way to be less reticent upon the subject of atomic energy, and my purpose in intervening in this Debate is to urge upon His Majesty's Government the advisability of giving much greater information to the people. When, over a year ago, it became evident that it was going to be practicable to drop the atomic bomb in the course of this war, the American physicists sought from the late President Roosevelt an assurance that they would be consulted as to the way in which these bombs were to be used. It was considered that there were several ways in which this might be done. One school of thought wished to explode the bomb at a height of 10,000 feet, producing in the sky a phenonomon very much brighter and hotter than the sun and with a strong blast effect upon all those in the neighbourhood. This demonstration would have been followed by suitable publicity inviting surrender before other such bombs were detonated at a lower level. Others wished to blow the top off Mount Fuji-yama, or to obliterate an island naval base in Tokyo harbour and in sight of the capital city. Whatever differences of opinion there were between the advocates of these different courses of action, all were convinced that the bomb should first be dropped as a demonstration and a threat. Hon. Members know what happened. The first bomb was dropped on Hiroshima and killed 125,000 people, and an awful precedent was established. From my opening remarks, the House will have gathered that I am no pacifist. Indeed, I would without hesitation have used this new weapon quite ruthlessly and I would have killed every man, woman and child in Japan, if that lay in my power, if by so doing I would have saved the lives of any Allied fighting men who would otherwise have been killed in battle. It would seem that the opportunity of trying to end the Japanese war by the mere threat of the atomic bomb was not taken, and it is difficult for those with no inside information to escape the conclusion that the first two bombs were dropped without sufficient thought. It may well not be so, but that is what is being widely said at present, and the Government would be well advised to make public their no doubt excellent reasons for what was done. Democratic Governments need not only to do right but also to appear to be doing right in  the eyes of the people. That first bomb killed 125,000 people, and we have the assurance of these eminent scientists that the atomic bombs of the future will be anything up to 1,000 times more devastating in their effect. Therefore, this matter is so much the more urgent today. The whole House will welcome the forthcoming talks between the Prime Minister and the President. We know that both these men are animated by the highest possible motives. I hope that these conversations will consider, among other things, the wisdom of treating the subject of atomic energy quite openly and giving the people in both countries the fullest possible information. In the United States, due largely to this lack of information, opinion is very much divided between those who want to give away the details of the bomb and those who regard it as a secret American invention which they must keep as no one else is to be trusted with it. To clear the air, the American physicists have been at pains to circulate a memorandum in which they specifically state ""those who advocate the secret of the bomb being kept, mislead our people."" As my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) stated, the only secret that remains today is what he called the ""practical production details,"" and even these will be discovered very quickly by those who wish to do so. In the same memorandum, the American physicists went on to state: even those nations with lesser resources than those of the United States will be able to produce atomic bombs within two to five years. Therefore, it is quite obvious that Russia, with her vast resources and above all her powerful State dictatorship, will very quickly catch up with the United States, and she has made it quite plain that she is going ahead just as fast as she can, with every intention of having the atomic bomb. So the position today is that the world has embarked upon another arms race and one which will have consequences a thousand times worse than the last one if it is not arrested. We in these small, densely populated islands are bound to be obliterated if this atomic bomb race reaches its logical conclusion. And it is because our survival is so utterly dependent upon the course of action taken by the United States that we   in this House are entitled to express our views to the President and his Government. And if we seek to give advice, it does not mean either that we have lost our affection for the leaders and people of America or that we are not deeply grateful for all they have done for us. What is it which has caused the start of the atomic arms race between the United States and Russia, which has got to be stopped if the world is to survive? I think that, difficult as it is to deal with, the cause is easy to define; it is mutual distrust and suspicion. And in this respect the attitude of the United States, in withholding the few remaining engineering and technical details of the bomb, is dangerous. It is certain that friendly co-operation between the United States, the British Empire and Russia is the only hope for the future of the world and, as the House well knows, no such co-operation exists today. I have listened to the weighty words of my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford. I am neither Russophile nor Russophobe, but an ordinary Englishman who is trying to take a realistic view of the situation as it is today. And it seems to me both obvious and understandable that Russia will not co-operate with the Western world as long as she is being treated at a lower level, as an inferior military Power, because of the conviction that she is not to be trusted. It is essential that Russia should be made to understand that we have no desire whatever to treat her on anything but an equal footing, and that the remaining details about the bomb, which have given America a two years' lead in time, will be at the disposal of Russia if she will agree to co-operate and above all to take part in a system of international controls and inspection which eminent British physicists say can be made effective. I am of the opinion that His Majesty's Government have already lost an opportunity in not having made a general statement of policy some weeks ago to the effect that we desire to see no exclusive possession of the atomic bomb, but an all-embracing world security. The use to which the two bombs have already been put, in the absence of any saving explanation, the encouragement which today is being given to the suspicions of  Russia, the time that has already been lost—it is 18 months since it was known that it would be possible to use the atomic bomb and almost five months since the first one was detonated—and the reticence of His Majesty's Government, give some grounds—I will not put it higher than that—for suspecting Ministerial ineptitude. This is no party matter, for science, like sex, knows no political alignments, and I assert that there is just as much uneasiness on the Government Benches as there is among my hon. Friends, and this uneasiness will persist until the Government take the House into their confidence. In particular, we desire to know what are the intentions of the Government as regards the development of nuclear power for industrial purposes in this country. I was very glad to hear what my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford said, and to have read the declaration of the President, to the effect that there is nothing to stop the development of nuclear power in this country, but we still await the assurance of His Majesty's Government that they have every intention of taking advantage of the new knowledge to provide our people with all the advantages of atomic energy. I cannot help wondering whether the decision to develop nuclear power in this country awaits the outcome of the talks between the President and the Prime Minister. I hope that when the Government think fit to put their programme for the development of nuclear power before us we shall find that their proposals are broad and ambitious, because for Great Britain to be left behind in such a matter would be the equivalent to our continuing to live in the Stone Age while other nations move forward to Bronze and Iron. I hope nothing will be decided between the President and the Prime Minister which will in any way restrict the scope of His Majesty's Government in the development of nuclear power for industrial purposes in this country. The Prime Minister will take with him to America the best wishes of all our people. I hope he will tell the President with that frankness and firmness which Americans respect that we have every intention of going ahead in the full-scale production in this country of nuclear power so as to give our people all the benefits that this discovery may have   made available. I devoutly hope that these discussions will initiate a policy which will roll back the rising tide of fears and mistrust, and stop the atomic arms race. Otherwise nothing will restore the ruins of our cities or revive the millions of our dead.
