gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like, first, to pay tribute to my predecessor, the right hon. George Darling, who, at the risk of arousing fury on the Opposition benches, I should describe as a man of immense compassion. He was a humane man, an   excellent constituency MP, deeply respected by all the people of Hillsborough, who sensibly gave me a 12,000 majority. Already I am learning of the many individual good actions in which he engaged for so many people, and the care and trouble that he, like his predecessor, A. V. Alexander, took to solve the many human problems with which they had to deal. My wish is to emulate their example. I now turn to that part of the Gracious Speech in which improved educational facilities and the development of a fully comprehensive system of secondary education are promised. I congratulate my right hon. Friend on what, when it is carried out, will be a splendid achievement. It will mean the complete abolition of the iniquitous, anti-educational, élitist 11-plus examination. I have always been wary of the mental measurers—those people who judge a child at the age of 11 and proceed to hamper him for life, having misjudged him and often blared in his ear at that age that he is a failure. I could never believe in that. Sheffield is lucky. It has a fully comprehensive system of education, although lacking certain of the finance with which to carry it out even better. It is good to know that this system will be developed throughout the country, as my right hon. Friend has promised. Up to the election I was a head teacher in what is called a middle school, which is essentially a primary school, and up to last week I was a member of the national executive of the National Union of Teachers. In the latter capacity I went on many deputations to the Department of Education and Science. So much so, my face was fairly well known there. I went there with frequent regularity. The right hon. Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) was virtually immovable from her attachment to élitist education. The Sheffield Education Committee invited the then Minister to Sheffield where there are over 250 State schools. When she eventually came, she visited the direct grant girls' high school, although outside the door were over 250 schools with ordinary children in them. Incidentally, when Lord James came to Sheffield he visited a preparatory school. He was putting out a report on teacher education. This is indicative of the mode of thinking about education. What, then, are the fundamental problems which concern us in education? One is the size of classes. Five years ago, I was teaching a class of 48 children in a school in which there were no classes with fewer than 47 children. There is an anecdote in the teaching profession about large classes. It concerns a young, gently nurtured woman, just out of college. She went to a school for the first time, and the headmistress said to her ""Now, dear, in front of you there are 45 children. You are expected to treat them as a wise parent would"". She turned to the headmistress and asked ""Which wise parent has 45 children?"". There is something in that. When a young child leaves home for the first time to go to school, he does so after having had a one-to-one relationship with the most important person in the world—his mother—and he suddenly finds himself in a queue—very often a long one—where it is difficult for even an able teacher to have that one-to-one relationship. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, I am sure, love small classes. They send their children to places which have small classes, so they must like that arrangement. We would like small classes in all State schools in which to teach our children. That is the real need, and in order to have smaller classes we need more teachers. In fact, we need a great many more teachers. We need, too, the replacement of old schools. In a school, it is axiomatic that the caretaker first gets to know what is to happen, and he tells the head who then asks the dinner woman. Our caretaker came to me the other day and said ""Mr. Flannery, we are to have a new school"". I replied ""Really? That is lovely, because our school is 100 years old this year and needs replacing"". I inquired at the education committee, where a good public servant said ""Well, we are having one new school per year in the primary sector in Sheffield, and you are fifteenth on the list"". It seems to me that we must do something about this question of new schools. An old   school is like an old person. It needs a doctor every now and again, and in our school we were never free of workmen on the premises. That is true of most schools, and money is needed to solve the problem. Some time ago, the previous Conservative administration put out an education policy statement entitled ""Education: A Framework for Expansion"". It should have been called ""Education: A Framework for Contraction"". When the initial euphoria had disappeared, because of the promise of expanded nursery education, the teachers' organisations and education committees ransacked the document and realised that what I have just said about contraction was profoundly true. But worse was to come. In December, as part of an overall £1,200 million cutback, no less than £182 million was lopped off education, and it is a fact that that has not yet gripped the consciousness of most people. It is a Draconian measure that will have an impact on education, and it is the worst cut in living memory. It will have such an impact that the whole of the educational system of this country will be set back. It has resulted in nationwide deputations, even to friendly education committees, to know where the cuts will come. The cut-back will cause unemployment among teachers. It is calculated in Sheffield by the chairman of the education committee that we shall have almost mass unemployment if this cut goes through as it is intended. It will mean lower recruitment among teachers, bigger classes because of fewer teachers, and fewer buildings. It will mean withdrawal of the capitation allowance for books and materials, which is already insufficient. It will mean the cessation of necessary repairs and the non-replacement of old schools. It will mean a lowering of existing educational standards, and many other drastic curtailments. I now propose to say something about the so-called London allowance, because teachers are being drained away from London to the extent that if a special allowance is not given to them it will mean that the system in inner London will be in danger of collapsing. I have recently spoken to many teachers about this problem. When we asked the previous Secretary of State for Education and Science to help us, the right hon. Lady came out of a Cabinet meeting and our executive was informed that £3 annually would be put on the London allowance. We were disgusted by that. If something is not done to help the inner London teaching service by providing an allowance the drainage of teachers will continue. The present position means that a teacher, having had all the interviews, having been refereed and having taken up a position, comes to London, gets the job and goes out to get a mortgage but fails to get one and has to go back and say that the job can no longer be held. The situation is as serious as that, and something needs to be done about it urgently. I know that my right hon. Friend has an unenviable task. The previous Government had virtually lost control of every aspect of finance except profits, which they showed splendid expertise in producing and regarded as sacrosanct. I hope that as we stabilise the mess that we have been left the cuts in education can be withdrawn and our whole system of education expanded. That is our duty to our children and our people.
