gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not know whether it is customary for maiden speakers to praise the previous speaker, but I do so. I think that he made an excellent speech. I know, however, that it is customary to praise the previous Member of Parliament for the constituency that one represents—Clwyd, South-West in my case—a task that could be difficult in a seat gained by Labour from the Conservatives. However, I find it surprisingly easy because, despite being of the wrong party, my predecessor seemed a pleasant, quiet person, who fought a gentlemanly election campaign. My predecessor had the problem of not being of the area, or even being resident in the area. However, he represented the constituency remarkably well on at least three occasions, when he voted against the Government in the interests of his constituents. He voted against the imposition of milk quotas, against cutting the standard rate of tax and against the further use of nuclear power during the Sizewell B debate. That is a worthy tradition that I hope to continue and build upon, especially in view of the fact that the Bill, in common with most of the Government's proposed legislation, will hold no benefits for the majority of the residents of Clwyd, South-West. As a county councillor in that county for six years, I well know the problems of the two areas of the constituency. The large rural part, which is made up of the largely agricultural vale of Clwyd, is likely to suffer from further reductions in local government spending on transport and rural education. It desperately needs reform of the common agricultural policy of the European Community to help the small, livestock farms of the area. Jobs will be lost in the market town of Denbigh with the proposed closure of the North Wales hospital there. Those jobs are unlikely to be replaced without substantial investment and, preferably, regional development status for the Vale of Clwyd. The problems of the urban, southern fringe are those of an old, industrial, predominantly mining area that is starved of investment. Villages such as Rhos, Cefn-Mawr, Ruabon and Acre Fair are unlikely to receive the investment that they require, although they are suffering in similar ways to the inner cities that have been singled out for special treatment by the Government. The idea that the Government need not intervene in industry, and that laissez-faire capitalism will return jobs and investment will not wash in villages created at the beginning of the industrial revolution, which saw what free enterprise did for them in the 1920s and 1930s. I fear that Clwyd, South-West will be in for four more years—at least—of degeneration. I therefore ask the Government to reverse their destructive and backward policies before it is too late, for the sake of the regions in general, and for the residents of Clwyd, South-West in particular.
