gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Since it would appear that a very large number of maidens are interested in the Territorial Army, the House might well look forward with some dread to the number who will show an equal interest in the Navy Estimates tomorrow. As a maiden speaker myself I may, perhaps, be forgiven for riding a personal hobby-horse within certain bounds, bounds which will be closer than those of the hon. Member for Westhoughton (Mr. Rhys Davies). The majority of people in Rushcliffe, the constituency in Nottinghamshire which I have the honour to represent, although sufficiently interested in military matters, have other more pressing problems. They may be pleased, however, that I make my maiden venture on a subject in which it is perfectly possible to be constructive without being unduly controversial and so myself be earlier admitted to the honourable ranks of the controversialists on subjects in which the people of Rushcliffe are particularly interested. No man who has for many years been a Territorial soldier and who is now member of a Territorial Association can listen to the Debate and remain silent. I have heard with great interest the proposal for dealing with the National Service intake to the Territorial Army. These problems are not new. They have been with us ever since the time of the first conception of the Territorial Army in its modern form, and I am only sorry to learn that the solution offered this evening by the Secretary of State for War is expected to take two years before it is smoothly working. The damage that can be caused by faulty methods in those two years may cause irreparable harm for many more years than two. The success of the T.A. in its new form will depend on the advertisement that is given to it by the first National Service entrants, whose disgruntlement [could be very damaging for a very long period in the eyes of those who follow them. It is said, and rightly so, that National Service men must be posted to  the unit of their arm of the service and that that unit must have its full complement of volunteers to form the framework for the National Service men. Various remedies for these two proposals have been suggested. These remedies will be completely ineffective unless we can look forward to a complete change of outlook on the whole problem. At the risk of exceeding my maiden's licence, I must say that in my opinion—which is the opinion of many serving Territorial officers as well—in the whole plan and structure of the Territorial Army there has not been that whole-hearted drive and support from the Government which alone can command success. I will cite two examples from the very early days just after the war. In those early days a Territorial officer was expected to obtain recruits and clothe them in part-worn battledress, a reasonable measure of economy, but what a reception for that best type of battle-trained soldier he was supposed to be recruiting—a man whose whole value and skill in battle had been based on just that type of self-respect that in peace and in war is typified by being a bit smarter in mind and in body than the next man, or the next unit, or indeed one's enemy. In those early days a newly appointed commander of a Territorial brigade—himself a most distinguished soldier, and the brigade with a great war record which entitled them to wear on their vehicles the New Zealand fern as their badge—on his first visit to his commanding officers was expected to put up his flag on the bonnet of an eight-hundredweight Austin utility van runabout. He had no false pride and did his job in the van which the War Office was graciously pleased to provide him with, but his commanding officers took a poor view of this new Territorial Army which was being launched and of the way in which it was launched. Many of us old Territorials in the war who at least were by no means disgracing the reputation of the pre-war Territorial Army, talked long and earnestly of its possibilities in peace. We saw its faults and we believed that those faults could be remedied. But on two things in our talk we insisted, first that the Territorial Army should be wholly voluntary and, secondly, that it should have sufficient money to preserve its pride. We cannot   run an army, Regular or Territorial, on the cheap. Today many of us are concerned that the true voluntary spirit will be diluted this year. That may be a necessity under today's conditions, but we are also concerned that there appears to be no means of discipline that will ensure that the National Service man who is not a volunteer will complete his service. Many, no doubt, will do so from a sense of duty—the majority, perhaps—but many, or some, will not and, as we read it, there seem to be no means to compel them to do so. I am sure the only proper basis for this reserve Army is a voluntary basis and that no money should be spared to make it both attractive and efficient on that basis, and that the National Service man, on completing his regular service, should have the option of volunteering for it and serving on the same terms as the volunteer. If he will not take that option, he should simply go to the Reserve and not be trained or serve until such time as it might be necessary to call him up in the event of war. In these circumstances, many will see some sense in a well presented argument on those lines, if it is presented that in the event of war the reservist when recalled—and he will be recalled to whatever unit most needs reinforcement—is in a poor position by comparison with the volunteer who volunteers from National Service to serve in the Territorials to be progressively trained in that Army and to fight, if he must fight, with officers and men whom he knows, and who know him. Many hon. Members will know how vitally important that is but the argument needs presenting in words in the sense that it is no use being mealy mouthed about the possibility of war. We may well pray that we may never see another war but that does not absolve us from our duty to face the possibility squarely, to put it to these young men before they finish their National Service that their best alternative in their own interest and in the interests of the country is to volunteer. When they have volunteered it is our duty to give them, in the Territorial Army, the very best that money can buy. I have said that that argument needs presenting in words. It needs presenting also in spirit in that too many of our public men in this country have in the  past decried or do now decry the need for awareness of the possibility of war. It needs presenting in spirit also in that many in all walks of life belittle the needs of the Armed Forces, and, as I hear in this House, belittle the well-proved methods by which the Army achieves its ends. The argument needs presenting, and it is not presented in this country today, with one voice. If it was and if our whole-hearted intention was to make our Reserve Army a thing of national pride, if above all, and this is my point, we relied on the voluntary spirit and rewarded it, we should have no need for concern at our level of recruiting.
