gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the privilege of addressing the House at so early a stage in the lifetime of the new parliament. The hurdle of making one's maiden speech — and it is a hurdle—seems to get higher with every day of waiting, certainly high enough to send many hearts searching for that little room of which Mr. Speaker spoke on the first day of this Parliament. It is 25 years since there was a maiden speech from the Government Benches from a representative of a wholly Nottingham city constituency. If that sounds like ""holy"" it was meant to sound that way, for the Secretary of State for Health and Social Services required a very large chunk of the county of Nottinghamshire to make up the old seat of Nottingham, South, and we must go back to my hon. Friend the Member for East Lindsey (Mr. Tapsell) for the last time that such a speech was made from the Government Benches. I have to thank Mr. Jack Dunnett for donating the three wards from the old Nottingham, East—two of them inner city wards; and Mr. Michael English for the other six wards from the old Nottingham, West to make up the new constituency of Nottingham, South. As both contributed mainly Labour wards, I suppose that I have more to thank for being here today that the Boundary Commission. Although this is a housing debate I hope that I shall be allowed to present the profile of Nottingham, South, which I believe is relevant to housing need. I share with my hon. Friend the Member for Broxtowe (Mr. Lester), at least to a modest extent, the telecommunications giant Plessey. To a much greater degree my constituency contains the pharmaceutical company of Boots. The   founder of Boots played an enormous part in helping to make Nottingham university one of the finest universities in Britain. That university, which is wholly in Nottingham, South, together with the new university teaching hospital, played a substantial part in a successful Conservative campaign in June. Nottingham, South is also the home of Players and TI Raleigh. It might be said that the products of the former are overused by hon. Members and that those of the latter, to misquote my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Employment, perhaps underused. The constituency contains the royal ordnance factory and the Trent polytechnic, which has a student population greater than that of most universities. It has the world-famous lace market whose factories produce cloth dyeing and finishing, garment-making and many ancillary textile operations as well as the famed lace trade. In the heart of my constituency is the city centre, with its commercial and administrative activities as well as some of the finest shopping in Britain. There are two closed pits within the constituency. One, the old Wilford pit, is now a thriving industrial estate with many factories. One employer, Pork Farms, has four large factories. I believe that the estate now employs far more than ever worked in the old Wilford pit. The second, the old Wollaton colliery, will this year become a large housing estate, with all that that means, directly and indirectly, for employment. On the southern border of the constituency there is even a genuine farm. Its fields provided excellent advertising space during the general election campaign between the depredations of the red hordes. Nottingham generally, and Nottingham, South in particular, has a breadth and variation that would be the envy of the one-industry profile that has ruined so many of our northern cities. However, homes and housing are our concern in this debate. Of the 41,000 homes in the constituency 22,000 were council-built. Those homes range from plush mansions, standing in about three quarters of an acre, in what we call Lenton park. There are top executive dwellings overlooking the beautiful Wollaton park. There is mature suburbia, private estates old and new, and council estates old and new. In newly-completed modern council developments the numbering of the properties, for some obscure reason, is jumbled. Only the architect working from a helicopter would be able to tell anyone where he was. We have tower blocks, too, of both standard and deck-access construction. We even have the remains of Victoriana, which we have fortunately saved from the bulldozer and which we are modernising. It is perhaps unfortunate that much of this housing has become part of bed-sit land. Nottingham, South is a constituency that illustrates the entire range of living and working. It has a broad industrial and commercial base and, on balance, would at one time have been considered safe Labour territory. So it was in 1979. It was progressively less so through to 1983. In the crunch, it deserted the Labour party in droves. The Government's policies in general, and on housing in particular, were responsible for that success. I welcome the opportunity to support them. I welcome especially the Minister's comment that the exclusion clause operated unfairly against the disabled and their families. It was surely never the Government's  intention to deny the disabled the right to buy. However, Labour councillors and the Labour-controlled Nottingham city council have used every device possible to deny those people the right to buy. One example concerns a family in my constituency with a disabled son. As he is confined to a wheelchair, the conventional doors within the home were removed and sliding doors were fitted. That family was denied the right to buy. The matter is being taken to appeal and I hope very much that the tribunal will find in the family's favour. On some odd grounds, the Labour city council will even reject standard bungalows as a matter of course. The right to buy is granted in almost every instance on appeal. The initial refusal is a delaying tactic, which is the hallmark of a Labour authority. I hope that the legal jargon of the Bill will not provide loopholes that will enable Labour councils to continue these practices. I hope, too, that there is time to consider the successful policy of transfer buying that was operated by the Conservative group when it had control of the city council. I pay tribute to the late Councillor Jack Green, who was the leader of the city council from 1976 to 1979. It is true that errors were made, but it was a new scheme. Under Jack Green's leadership we sought to give council tenants the right to buy a council home, but not necessarily the one in which they were living. The scheme gave tenants the facility to buy a larger home or a smaller home depending on the current needs of the family, the couple or the single person. The wider implementation of such a policy would hasten the occupation of empty properties. My city cannot be alone in having thousands of empty properties. They have been left empty because, in most instances, a Labour council wishes to advance the spurious argument that the Government will not give it sufficient money to allow it to modernise the properties. The transfer buying system would enable authorities quickly to fill all empty properties. The repairs clause is especially applicable to Nottingham. In three years the Labour council doubled the amount spent on repairs. It adopted the old policy of throwing money at the problem. I assure the House that few living in Nottingham would say that they notice any difference in the quality or number of repairs that were carried out. The social and housing needs of Nottingham, South are entirely in sympathy with economic and employment requirements. It seems that Government policies have transformed traditional Labour cities such as Nottingham. They have become proud property owning societies. If nothing else, they have become anti-Socialist. I hope that my hon. Friends the Members for Nottingham, North (Mr. Ottoway) and for Nottingham, East (Mr. Knowles) and I will represent for many years what is called the queen of the midlands.
