gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome the terms in which the Minister presented the Bill. I agree with many of the observations of the hon. Member for Crew (Mrs. Dunwoody) speaking from the Opposition Front Bench. I wish, in the first instance, to pay tribute to my illustious predecessor, the Rev. Robert Bradford, who took a keen interest in mental health and sought to improve the welfare of those who so suffered or were mentally handicapped. This was typical of a man who cared for people and toiled indefatigably for his constituents, in particular, and for the nation at large. Even those who may not have shared his convictions or dreamed his dreams had to admit his integrity, and admire his courage and consistency in furthering the cause to which he was committed and the manifestation of Christian love that he displayed to those with whom he would otherwise have been at variance. He died, mowed down by terrorists, in the service of the country and of his constituents. Ministers of the Crown and others sometimes speak of mindless terrorism. In so doing, they reveal their ignorance or grasp of the situation. In this debate on the Mental Health (Amendment) Bill, I wish to correct such a false opinion. There is a mind directing terror. In Ulster, this is the work of a small number of dedicated murderers seeking to impose their rule on an overwhelming majority who, like Robert Bradford, refused to be bombed or bullied, cowed or cajoled, into a country with whose fundamental position they disagreed. Sometimes, as politicians seek to internationalise the conflict, we, in Ulster, recognise that extra-national forces have been at work, ranging from Eastern bloc countries, through Palestinian terrorists to Uncle Tom Cobbleigh and all. Yes, even ""the man from Uncle"" appears to be meddling. Robert Bradford's people, however, consistently refused to be defeated and returned me to carry on his work. I also rise to speak because the Bill is of concern to my constituents. The changes suggested and the overall Act will have import in Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom. Within the constituency, we have a very fine hospital in this sphere, and offices of various bodies associated with mental health are also found there. A number of constituents have shown great concern in the   matter. Some have provided valuable evidence, even if not fully heeded, to the Northern Ireland review committee on mental health legislation. In this context, I offer the comment that a better balance of lay participation in such bodies, rather than merely following the professionals, who may have peculiar axes to grind, could lead to a more healthy report. Nevertheless, reverting to participation in this debate on a national Bill, I believe that we can share some of our experience so that the new Act might be improved and Great Britain learn from our experience. We shall consequently benefit, along with the whole kingdom. It is my privilege to represent some of the finest people in the nation. Belfast, South has an excellent record with such distinguished servants to this House as Connolly Gage and Rafton Pounder, to name but two. There are areas of great need, dismal housing and bad social conditions in Belfast, South. There are also estates with modern housing and contented people looking after their neighbourhood. Faced, like other areas, with too much unemployment, it is good to see the city leading in the provision of leisure centres and some beautiful parks and recreational areas. However, the river Lagan, which flows through it, is a source of pollution. A massive effort, co-ordinated by the Government, is needed to ensure that it is clean and can be used as a helpful amenity. Some steps have already been taken, but much more needs to be done. Furthermore, Belfast, South influences not only Northern Ireland but the world at large by the outstanding work carried on in Queen's university and Stranmillis training college. I trust that that work will not be impaired by the present education cuts. This is not the time for a detailed discussion of the Bill. However, in welcoming it and paying tribute to the work of the noble Lords and the draftsmen who have brought it this far, I would express some disquiet. Section 141 of the principle Act is similar to section III of the Northern Ireland Act, the outworking of which has given rise to concern. I pay tribute to the outstanding improvement in the care both of the mentally ill and the mentally handicapped. I admit that in most cases patients are adequately cared for by staff who do a magnificent job in difficult circumstances. I also acknowledge that there are cases of extreme difficulty in dealing with some patients who refuse to be treated. Nevertheless, a basic task of the House is to frame legislation that protects citizens and safeguards their liberties. The Northern Ireland Act tried to do that, as the Bill now tries to do, but it still tends to protect the profession rather than the patient. The rights of the relatives have been subsumed by the tribunal. Even the phrase ""as soon as practicable"" in section 45 has, in our experience, been interpreted broadly. Patients have not been informed of their rights when they should have been. In one case ""as soon as practicable"" meant six months. In some cases the nearest relative was not informed. In the Bill, social workers can, on the spot, overrule the wishes of the nearest relative. If various local authorities might differ, as the hon. Member for Crewe argued, so may social workers, some of whom are good and some bad. These cases are not of simple human error, but rather of definite decisions where attempted cover-ups were performed, as some hon. Members can confirm. That relates not to one hospital, but to several, and I suspect that it is found also in Great  Britain. Even the management committee, which is responsible for protecting and informing the patients, was unaware of the position. In one case a distinguished public-spirited member resigned from a management committee when he discovered the facts. Although the Secretary of State referred to the distinction between mentally handicapped and mentally ill, to my mind it is better that they continue to be served by separate bodies caring for them. The continued ambiguity over detaining for assessment arid the formalising of treatment requires further study. For these and other reasons, I hope that the Bill will be given careful scrutiny and improved before it passes through the House.
