gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I feel urged to speak to-day for the first time in this House because I have lately returned from Italy and Greece—two countries to which little attention has been paid during this Debate, but whose conditions are only one degree less threatening than conditions in Germany and in Eastern Europe, I am encouraged in so doing by the customary courtesy and indulgence afforded to Members who address this House for the first time. One thing has emerged very clearly from this Debate, and that is that on both sides of the House we no longer think of Britain as existing in isolation from the rest of Europe. We recognise that among the body of nations when one member is in pain, that pain communicates itself to all its other members. To-day we realise very acutely the truth of the words which John Donne wrote 300 years ago. He wrote: No man is an island, entire in itself. Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the maine; if a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontorie were, as well as if a mannor of thy friends or of thine own were; any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind. We are all involved in mankind and we recognise that, during the coming winter, if I may paraphrase the end of John Donne's sermon, the funeral bells which toll for the children of Europe, will toll for our own children unless we do something active now in order to restore Europe to economic health. I speak of economic health rather than of a political restoration, because I believe profoundly that: most of Europe's ills are based on   Europe's economic disorders. The worker is unwilling to work, if he does not feel that at the end of the day, he is going to get enough to buy the next day's bread; and the merchant and the trader are unwilling to send their goods to the market and prefer rather to hoard them, unless they feel that in exchange for their goods they will get a fair economic price instead of a sackful of worthless paper. That impressed itself upon me when I was in Greece, because there I felt, above all, the political disorder had its origin, not so much in constitutional questions nor merely in matters of difference of politics, but in the fundamental fact that the inheritance of Nazism in Greece has led more or less to economic chaos. I visited a prison in Corinth and spoke to some of the 580 E.A.M. prisoners who were detained there. Among them was a Greek soldier who fought in the Albanian mountains. When I asked him what he considered Greece needed first, he answered that Greece needed, above all, bread, work and liberty. I hope His Majesty's Government will encourage the emergence in Greece of a moderate Government which will be able to restore those liberties which we, in this country, regard as being elementary, and which to-day in Greece are only imperfectly realised. I have every hope that in Greece the introduction of a Habeas Corpus Act will enable those 580 men who have been lying in Corinth gaol for so many months either to have a proper and open trial or to be promptly released. Even more important than that, I feel, is the question of how Greece is going to exist through this coming winter. U.N.R.R.A. is doing great work in Greece, abundant supplies are flowing in there, but that in itself is not enough. We must continue those supplies, but we must not encourage a remittance man's mentality in Greece, just as we must not encourage that mentality throughout Europe. Relief and rehabilitation do not consist merely in giving charity. We must certainly use every philanthropic means in order to save the lives of the people of Europe, but, above all, we must help those countries to get on to their own feet and, therefore, not only must we use the instrument of U.N.R.R.A. but we must also use every other means in order that these countries may be able to re-establish  their industries, and so provide work for their people during the coming years. In addition to that, although the goods are entering Greece in plentiful supply, and although the people who work and collaborate with U.N.R.R.A. are working energetically for the relief of Greece, it is a fact that because those goods are distributed through the Greek Ministry of Supply and through committees appointed by the Greek Minister of the Interior, out of every 100 per cent. of U.N.R.R.A. goods sent into Greece, more than a quarter are either diverted into the black market or are stolen or disposed of in some other way. That is not merely hearsay, although I have heard it often enough from many sources in Greece, but it is also my personal observation when I was there. In Megara, I was surrounded by literally dozens of Greeks, who urged on me that in that particular town of about 16,000 people, of whom approximately 6,000 were literally destitute, something should be done in order to make sure that the goods delivered to Greece by U.N.R.R.A. should be properly and fairly distributed without political favouritism and without any of the diversion of supplies which had been going on. Therefore, I hope His Majesty's Government will, as soon as possible, urge the sending to Greece of a Civil Service Commission. I believe that is something which is already being considered. If that Commission does, in fact, go to Greece, I hope it will undertake as one of its first tasks to re-form and re-organise the Greek Ministry of Supply. If that is done I am sure it will be a relief not only to the Greeks but also to the British and American taxpayers. Beyond that, I feel that we must give to the Greek peasant, worker, industrialist and business man the feeling that, in future, Greece will not be permanently dependent on charity, but will be able to establish herself as an economic unity once again. I would suggest with great respect that His Majesty's Government should propose to the other Great Powers the creation, preferably in the Balkans, of a Balkan trading corporation in which all the major Powers would hold equal shares. The function of that corporation would be to buy the produce of the Greek peasants and industrialists, and sell to them in return those things which the Greeks will be eager to buy and which   we ourselves, like the other Powers who take part in that corporation, will be anxious to sell to them. We know how the present economy of South-eastern Europe could be vastly improved, if only they had the mechanical agricultural implements which they need so desperately. I hope that, in future, Great Britain I have one of the great exporting tractor industries and I hope that the constituency which I represent—Coventry, West—will be able to play some part in the export of those tractors and of that agricultural machinery which is so badly needed for the reconstruction of Europe. I suggest that it should be possible to establish in the Balkans a trading corporation—a great Balkan trading corporation for that kind of two-way traffic. I hope that in that corporation, we shall collaborate very closely with our great Ally the Soviet Union, with our great Ally the United States of America and with our great and renascent Ally, France. In that way, I hope, not only shall we be able to help Greece—as one example—to reconstruct herself but, in addition, instead of the Balkans being a point of separation between the Powers, a point where their contentions focus themselves, that they will form a point at which we shall be linked with the other Powers to develop together the economy of Europe in the interests of Europe. Though I have spoken mainly of Greece, I would like to refer briefly to Italy. In Northern Italy we have one of the great industrial centres of Europe. We have those vast and important factories, almost untouched, whose wheels to-day are slowly turning to a stop and where, during this winter, unless something is done to restart those factories, there will be over a million workers standing idle, resentful, sullen and rebellious. Those works are capable of producing machinery, motor transport, rolling stock and electrical equipment—all things which Europe most desperately needs, all things which Central Europe needs most urgently, and which neither we nor America will be able to supply. Let us not abandon Italy entirely to U.N.N.R.A. Let us not devote ourselves to sending to Italy, in the form of relief, fully manufactured goods which the Italian workers are themselves capable of manufacturing. Let us rather help the Italian workers once again to re-establish the Italian  economy. My observation in Italy showed me that Italy is one of those ex-enemy countries which are genuinely anxious to return as soon as possible to democratic conditions. There are, approximately—I have this figure from the Secretary-General of the Italian trade union movement—3,000,000 organised Italian workers who are anxious to revive Italian trade unionism and to reconstruct their previous democratic form of organisation. Let us help Italy, not only in Italy's own interests but let us, even more than that, help Italy in the interests of Europe. Finally, I would say this. In Trieste we have one example of how, in conjunction with our Allies, we can make a place, which has been the centre of possible antagonism between the major Powers, serve Europe. I think that Trieste should be regarded not as the port of Italy nor as the port of Yugoslavia, but really as the port of Central Europe, for which it was really designed. I believe in that way we can help the prosperity of Europe—by internationalising Trieste, by internationalising the railways, and having a joint control, by the Allies who have combined so well in war, combining equally well in peace, I believe we can lay the foundations for European properity. ""No man is an island…we are all involved in humanity."" I hope that we shall remember that, not only during the coming winter, but during the arduous years when we are building the peace.
