gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first time I have sought to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I trust the House will give me their usual consideration. It is particularly necessary in my case, since for many years I have sat in another part of this building exercising judgment on the speeches of hon. Members, and I am afraid my judgment was sometimes harsh and ungenerous. Now that I am delivered into your hands, I trust that on this occasion at least the judgment of hon. Members will be kinder and more generous than was my own. I thought I might speak for the first time in this House on this subject because I am a Member of the Select Committee, and it seemed to be no bad thing to start off on something one knew something about, no matter what temptations one has to face later on. It was said at the time that the recommendations of the Select Committee were published that they did not amount to very much. They were small. I recollect that ""The Times"" on that occasion seemed to be rather frigid about them, but then, of course, ""The Times"" is frigid about most things these days, and perhaps that is not very significant. But it is not true that virtue always lies in size. A thing is not necessarily poor because it is small. We have only to look at the Liberal Party to see the truth of that statement. It is true that these proposals are small; it is important we should understand that they are small, that they do not enter into the more fundamental problems of reform which this House and the Select Committee still have to face. The Committee themselves declare in their Report that they  desire at the outset to emphasise the limited character of the present Report and to make it clear that it is made without prejudice to any wider proposals for the reform of Parliamentary procedure which they may later recommend. It is important, I think, not only to recognise the advantages of this scheme, but equally to recognise its limitations. It should be understood particularly by the Government that these proposals can do no more than create a rather wider channel for the flow of legislation. They do no more than that. They do not deal with the wider problem of how we can secure a more effective use of the whole of the time at our disposal. They do not deal with the problem of how we can expedite Government Business without sacrificing the essential function of political scrutiny in this House. Nor do they deal with how Parliament can sustain the new burdens which must now be faced in the light of contemporary conditions. Those problems remain. I do not share the view of those—some in my own party perhaps—who believe that Parliament was designed by a cunning ruling class to frustrate the aspirations of the common people. I think that history proves that to be quite an erroneous opinion. The practices of this House have actually grown out of historic clashes of principle and interests which, in their own way, were as fundamental and as stark as those which now face us. Therefore, we have evolved a Parliamentary system which at heart, in my judgment, is really sound. But I think it must also be said—and said from these benches—that that system is not constructed to deal with the new problems of government. It is not fitted in its present shape, and the tempo which is possible in its present shape is not adequate, for the burdens which are now before us. Parliament now must take an increasing responsibility for the management of the country's economic affairs. That will be so whichever party is in power. If it should so happen that the party opposite come back into power after the next Election, while they might have a different approach from that of hon. Members on this side to economic affairs, undoubtedly they would have to be responsible, or take responsibility on behalf of the Government, for the control and direction of a large sector of the economic activity of this country. That is inevitably so. That being so, it   is important that we should see that the House does not break down because we have not redesigned and reconditioned our methods in the light of these new responsibilities. Clearly, the proposals now before the House do not do that. They await the attention of the Select Committee, and I call attention to them because it seems to me important, as I have already said, to recognise the limitations of what it is we are now doing. Now, I would like to raise one or two considerations which are prompted by the Report. First, I would like to express the hope that the public outside will recognise that very heavy physical burdens are to be placed on Members of this House. I support entirely what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) said in that respect. It is important that the public should apprehend that. Members of all parties in this House will be faced for a very longtime with very serious physical burdens and the extra work in these extra Committees will add to those burdens. I hope that my colleagues in the journalistic profession will not in future venture to suggest to the public that Members of this House are not doing their business if these Benches are not always crowded on occasions of this kind. The second consideration I would like to put is this. I want to suggest to the Government that it will be necessary, if the best use is to be made of Parliamentary time, for the Government to plan their legislative programme with greater precision. That has not been done in the past. It seems to me there has been an extraordinary lack of planning in the business of bringing legislation before the House. It has been a very haphazard business largely determined by which Minister was most articulate or artful inside the Cabinet. The Lord President of the Council, as the Minutes of Evidence before the Select Committee show, confessed that he himself, because he was rather more articulate and artful than other Ministers, managed to get priority for Bills which, on their merits, ought not to have had priority. I think that is a bad thing. I think it is wrong that the flow of legislation should primarily be determined by the individual artfulness of Ministers. I think that the Cabinet should see that the feeding of legislation into this improved and enlarged machine is more skilfully contrived in the future than it  has been previously. If it does not, it is clear, as a result of the scrutiny which Members of the Select Committee have been able to make on this matter, that the advantages the Government hope to get will not accrue. I want next to underline the observations in the Report on the staff of the OFFICIAL REPORT. The recommendation is: The Committee feel bound to record the view of the Editor of the Official Report that in existing circumstances he could see his way to provide for only four Committees and that at the present rate of salary it would not be possible to recruit more reporters of the very high standard required. The Lord President of the Council has indicated that the Government are aware of this problem and intend to look into it, but he did not touch on the heart of this matter. I want to suggest to him that the Government's inquiry into this problem will be fruitless unless they decide at the outset that they are prepared to pay these excellent craftsmen more money for their services in this Assembly. It is quite true that there is now, and will be for a considerable time, a shortage of competent, expert shorthand writers, but if this House is to have its share of that limited supply, if it is to attract more of them away from the more glamorous life of the newspapers, it must offer higher material rewards. I venture to say that the present rewards are hopelessly inadequate. They are quite unfair, and the men who do this excellent work for us are entitled to more money. I hope the Government will see that they get it. I think that any man who is prepared to make a profession out of listening all day to the speeches in this House deserves the highest reward. I have only one further observation to make. It is on a matter that was raised by the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington in another connection. Many people believe that this experiment in extending the Committees may develop into a complete Committee system. I know that idea has very many attractions for a large number of people. I think the scheme should develop and that more work might be done in Committee, but for my part I am entirely opposed to turning this Assembly into some sort of exalted town council. I think that would be quite wrong, and I think it would vitiate the real merit and   quality of this House in the defence of the cause of democracy in this country. I think we should be ill-advised to destroy the central function of this House as the great forum of debate on public policy, and a general clearing house for the people's aspirations. We must preserve that at all costs and adjust our extension of Committee activity to it without destroying that central function. That is all I wanted to say, but, as this is my first speech, may I conclude with this general observation? I would like to declare my own personal faith and belief in Parliament as the most valuable British institution. I would rather have a Parliament in the control of the party opposite, alarming as that would be, rather than no Parliament at all. If this institution were to go, our established system of democratic liberty would go with it, and great darkness would descend upon the land, but, if it is to survive, in this institution, which it is our business to work in these troubled times, it is essential that we should remove any weaknesses that we may find in its structure. It is imperative that we should not place tradition before the public good, although we should not be reckless in discarding anything which tradition has shown to be both prudent and desirable. We must constantly have in our minds the need for scrutinising our methods so that we march abreast of events, and if we see that the machinery of government, which has its centre and pivot in this Assembly, matches the questing mood of our people at this time, we may be sure that this ancient House has yet to see its most glorious and most fruitful years.
