gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is customary in a maiden speech to refer to one's predecessor in the constituency. I can imagine circumstances in which even the generosity of spirit that clings to a newly-elected Member must make this a special parliamentary difficulty. However, it is easy to find words with which to speak about Mr. Paget. He served Northampton and his constituents well for nearly 30 years. During that time, he held no blind allegiances. He had independence of action. He was his own man; he never cadged a vote. In the former Member for Northampton my constituents had a real choice. I believe that it says something for him and for my constituents that in all those years—some of them turbulent—he was consistently returned to the House. His integrity and independence held their affection and their vote. Above all, I believe that he loved this House of Commons and his many friends here. I hope that in time I, too, will earn the same affection from my constituents and the respect from the House that were accorded to him. Northampton's traditional industry is the manufacture of boots and shoes. As a consequence of the three-day week, the industry has lost a season of spring footwear fashion and styling which play such an important part in it. My constituents are most unhappy about those who introduced the three-day week, which they felt was entirely unnecessary. Northampton is a town with a distinctive past that decided adventurously—some say impetuously—to face the future. I hope that as its MP I can participate in   helping to ensure that its future will be successful. The subjects of today's debate are agriculture and prices. I will not speak on agriculture. Farming has always given me the impression of being the last major secret society in Britain—unchanged in its mysteries since mediæval times. Even the Ministers appointed by successive Governments to take charge of agriculture have seemed invariably to have mud on their boots and a look that suggested that they had just come in from milking. I will say something about prices, because, during the election campaign, there was hardly a meeting at which I spoke where I did not pledge that the next Labour Government would do something about them. This problem is at the heart of our programme, with the kind of unshiftable relevance that the National Health Service had in the first post-war Labour Government. What people are looking for from our Government are signs that we care about prices. During the reign of the last Government, especially during last year, there was an impression in the nation that the Government had adopted a feeling of hopelessness about prices, that they had given in. Fair or not, that was the impression that came over, and it must never happen to our Government. Never must we allow the hideous enemy, prices, to overwhelm us. This is where we stand and fight. From a reference to prices it is natural to turn to those people who are most hit by the price rises—the pensioners. Pensions are being drawn at any given moment by about one-sixth of the population. But the provision of adequate pensions is of direct and personal concern to the whole nation, for it is true to say that all of us, even those of us who are still working, are pensioners in waiting. The provision of a secure old age, without having to count the pennies, without having to be dependent on the charity of reluctant relatives. is something that affects not merely the retirement period—usually very short for a man who retires at 65 and will probably be dead five to seven years later—but the last 10 years of a person's working life. A working life without an adequate pension to look forward to is like working  from Monday to Friday knowing one will be hungry at the weekend; it is a cloud over one's whole existence. What is an adequate State retirement pension? The raising of the State pension to what seems to be an adequate sum has always marked the start of a new Labour Government. It did in 1945; it did so again in 1964, that being the largest improvement for 18 years. The £4 we then provided for a single person seemed a reasonable sum in those days of cheap food. In 1974 the provision of better pensions is again one of the leading items in the Government's programme. A figure of £10 for a single person and £16 for a couple is a defensible proposition, but we should not be complacent about it. What I find most encouraging about the pension plan in the Gracious Speech is the promise that it will be linked with national income. That is better. That is a far less paternalistic approach to pensions than the idea presently prevailing of reviewing pensions at intervals to see what damage has been done to them by the cost of living. It establishes, for the first time, a principle of equality for pensions in relation to the rest of the population that has not existed before. It is sometimes not appreciated by politicians that pensioners are not falling over themselves with gratitude for being given enough merely to prevent starvation. That may have been a laudable thought when Lloyd George introduced his mite. But things are different today. We live in a world of the most alluring consumer goods, and, if consumer goods are considered to be the inalienable right of working people, is it so wicked that pensioners should covet them as well? At the age of 60 or 65, does one, by some biological miracle, suddenly become an aesthetic, indifferent to the blandishments of the consumer world? Do not pensioners like sunshine holidays? Do not pensioners like to buy books and LPs? Do not pensioners like nice food and the occasisonal meal out, a new hair style and new clothes? Of course they do. I am aware that for some pensioners the State pension is not the only source of income. I am aware of the complex system of private pension funds. But I am talking about the great bulk of the people of Britain, the working people, whose great achievement in life is to be   able to get through their working lives, to bring up their families, to have a few extras in the good days and to keep out of debt in the bad days. They have little in the way of fat savings to fall back on. Those people are citizens of this country, entitled to their reasonable share of the national wealth. The £10 and £16 a week is all right for a start, but let us build on that. I want eventually to see a pension that provides not only for necessities but for indulgences as well.
