gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My constituency is well known for its industrial contribution, particularly in textiles, and more recently in mechanical engineering. It is also well known for its natural beauty, which is to be seen in the Pennine Park and the wild moorland which is enjoyed by many of my constituents and people from Leeds, Manchester and elsewhere. My constituency is also renowned politically, as it was represented in this House for nearly 25 years by Douglas Houghton, whose public and political service, nationally and locally, was widely recognised and much appreciated. His distinguished career, which started in the trade union movement before he came to this House and to Government, was capped by his long and able chairmanship of the Parliamentary Labour Party. Many of my constituents, like me, will welcome the key provisions contained in the Gracious Speech. Pensioners, who make up a large proportion of my constituents, anxiously await an increase in their pensions. I hope that the Government will introduce the increase as soon as possible and that they will take full note of the confident statements made in the Conservative manifesto that pensions could be increased twice yearly. The machinery for paying pensions needs to be improved, so that pension increases can be paid as quickly as possible after the necessary legislation has been passed. I hope that the Government will ensure that Departments are geared to pay the pension increase quickly. Tenants—both council and private—in my constituency will welcome the freeze which has been imposed on rents. This will make a major contribution to the fight against the rising cost of living. Both sides of industry in my constituency welcome the repeal of the Industrial Relations Act, which has demonstrated the utter folly of such legislation. The attempt to shackle the unions has been totally defeated, and I hope that no Government will ever again propose legislation of this sort. Everyone will welcome the Government's attempts to fight rising prices. Housewives and other shoppers need help. They need protection and information to   fight rising prices. They need clear information in every shop, showing the fair price of every commodity on sale. They also need machinery on the ground to enable them to take action against any abuses. In this connection, local authorities can be used most effectively in policing price increases. I wish to see the bureaucratic obstacles which have been placed in the way of local authorities swept away as early as possible. Working mothers do not have time to shop around, as they are often urged to do by Opposition Members. They are angry that identical items cost widely different amounts in shops only yards apart. They are annoyed at the artificial competition in so many high streets. The names above the shops may be different, but they are owned by fewer and fewer large combines. Working mothers are angry at the vast advertising promotion used by manufacturers who produce wider and wider ranges of products. Much advertising expenditure could be reduced. Working mothers are outraged also at recent statements that if price controls were imposed the ability of retailers to increase the salaries of shop assistants and efforts to modernise their premises would be inhibited. It is seen to be nonsense. We know that through weak trade union organisation shop assistants have received some of the lowest wages paid in Britain. Many of my constituents will welcome negotiations to obtain better Common Market terms and the fact that the ultimate choice of staying in or leaving will rest entirely with the people. Industry will welcome the commitment to expand and give high priority to regional development, which must be accelerated in my constituency if we are to stem the flow of young people from our area to other and more prosperous parts of the country. Large-scale sustained investment is needed in industry. We need more jobs, and better jobs. We need the better pay and conditions which will lead to more young people living and working within our own area. After telling us that the Tories and Liberals were riding an electoral tidal wave which would annihilate the Labour Party, upon the basis of opinion polls which have again been found to be erroneous at election time, the media are  now warning anyone who still cares to listen that the Government must act meekly if they are to survive. I trust that the Government will not be deflected by such warnings from our friends in the media. They must listen to the people of Britain—a much more reliable source than the instant pundits who so often have the advantage of the media. At the election, the electorate rejected anti-democratic legislation and policies that made the worst-off even poorer. It rejected Government arrogance and confrontation, and the idiotic argument that the miners were holding Britain to ransom and the election was about moderation versus extremism. It rejected failure. It rejected discredited men and policies. The Labour Government must now fulfil the programme they have before them and demonstrate that they believe in Socialist priorities, in fairness, and in social justice. I urge the Government to keep faith with the people who elected them, and to keep faith with the working people of Britain.
