gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like to ask for the indulgence of the House. This is a very difficult occasion for me, but I know that I can trust the customary generosity and understanding of hon. Members to help me in this difficult task of speaking in the Chamber for the first time. The things that we are discussing today are of vital interest to the people of Melton, whom I have the honour to represent. Many of them are engaged in agriculture. They will welcome the news that we had today from my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary of the progress that has been made in agricultural legislation and in the provision of safeguards for agricultural workers. Many of the people of Melton are also employed in the varied and vigorous commercial life of Leicester, and the matters which we have been discussing this afternoon are of vital importance to them in their everyday working lives. The Gowers Committee foresaw that there might well be considerable delay in implementing many of its recommendations. It knew the need for giving priority to building our ecenomic strength and our national prosperity and security. If I may draw upon my own experience, in the post-war years, in my own pottery industry, we gave all our strength and all our resources to building productive capacity. New machines, new equipment and new workshops had precedence over welfare amenities and improved working conditions, but with increased production the emphasis changed to improving working amenities and facilities for our people. This was done not only because these were good things in themselves and increased the industrial efficiency of our workers but because in conditions of full employment and a shortage of labour these things were necessary if we were to attract the manpower required to increase our productive capacity and our sales organisation. Prosperity and full employment produced the pressures which led to improved working conditions. We should not have been able to help ourselves forward in industry and commerce in this way if Her Majesty's Government had not put first things first. We  all agree that it is desirable that the recommendations in the Gowers Reports should be implemented but, first, we must rebuild our national prosperity and our productive capacity. Many difficult and complicated Measures have been put before the House since 1951, dealing with monopolies, agriculture, finance, rents, housing and other matters, and action has been taken in the vital national interest of the country. All these things have added to the pressure on our legislative programme, but they have done more—they have led to higher production and more exports, and with the increased buoyancy of our economic life we have been able to improve working conditions. Increased economic buoyancy has led to industrial and commercial conditions leaping ahead of our industrial legislation. Since it was first conceived, over 150 years ago, industrial legislation has set the pattern of our working life and of our industrial conditions. They are conditions of which we may well be proud. They compare favourably with those in any part of the world. From the very first, the whole emphasis of our industrial legislation has been on protection against exploitation, protection against physical hardship, protection against industrial diseases and accidents and, for the individual, social and moral protection in the interests of society. It is within the framework of this protection that our working life has been formed. We all welcome the recommendations in the Gowers Reports, which complete this pattern and make it a more comprehensive picture of our industrial and commercial life. Having built up this protection against exploitation, against harsh physical conditions, having built up the great mass of social legislation which we want to maintain and strengthen in the future, we must recognise that at this time there is a change of emphasis. The protective legislation which we have built up fulfilled the requirements of the first industrial revolution but now, in this second phase of development, we are seeing great changes. I believe that the greatest change at this time is the need for opportunity, because the economic forces themselves are pushing ahead with increasing safeguards and increasing improvements in our economic conditions. It is in this   context that I want to suggest some of the ways in which I believe we can give greater opportunity, greater freedom and flexibility in our industrial and national life. At present, we are experiencing great changes in our industrial techniques and in our industrial developments. Hon. Members who went recently to the Office Efficiency Exhibition need not be reminded of the great changes that are taking place in our commercial life. Great changes are also taking place in our social habits. We have, for instance, pre-prepared food, packaging, ""Expresso"" coffee in the tea room, refrigeration, slot machines, supermarkets. All these things may well cause a revolution in our social and shopping habits. In the face of these changes we need a flexible and adaptable society, a society which is able to use the abilities and the new techniques at our command. We shall never have economic progress if we have a rigid and a repressive society. It is because we think that some of the recommendations in the Gowers Reports may lead to greater rigidity in our society, and because we feel that the provisions contained in the Shops Bill may be out of tune in some respects with the conditions of the age, that we feel they need the greatest examination possible and, if necessary, revision. Because of that we feel that we have a responsibility at this time to view our legislation in the light of our need to go forward and build our economic prosperity and the prosperity of our people. It is in this context that we feel that there is room for delay, for examination, for revision and examination of much of our industrial legislation. There is much at this time that we must do. Last week scientists met together at Harwell to discuss the application of thermo-nuclear energy to peaceful industrial uses. These great new powers are causing new pressures in our society. The greatest and the most fundamental power, manpower, must exert the greatest possible ability and technical skill and conscientiousness in output in his, or her, duties. He must exert and command the widest possible opportunities. These things can only be done if he himself is an integrated personality, if he is part of a mature set of human relations. There is  no one single answer to this great problem of present-day employment. We all recognise that the greatest needs are flexibility, adaptability and reliability. These are qualities that only come from good human relations and, at heart, good human relations are the integration of the whole personality. There is not one answer, but at the heart of the problem is the necessity for the right man being in the right job, a round peg in a round hole, having the confidence that comes from knowing that he is the right man in the right job, having the confidence that gives him the ability to face the working conditions and the stresses of the present day with the least possible emotional strain. The medical profession is now increasingly recognising the influence of emotional stress on mental health, physical health and the great problem of absenteeism. if we can do something to build the integrated personalities of our people, to help them have a feeling of oneness with their work and with society, we shall be going a long way towards building those good, mature human relations which can do much to solve some of the problems in our industrial life. To do that we must make certain that there is the right kind of vocational guidance and training. I know that a great job is being done by youth employment officers, but they do not go far enough. Vocational guidance does not stop at the age of 18. It is a continuous process which should go on all through one's life. It is a process which must concern itself with problems such as changing employment due to age or changing circumstances—for instance, when women go back into employment after married life or after having brought up their children. The recommendations in the Citizens of Tomorrow Report of the King George V Jubilee Trust lay emphasis on the need for fresh exploration in the field of vocational training, selection and guidance. Certainly, all the big industrial concerns accept the value of vocational training and selection in the development of the human personality and in the efficiency of industrial production. We could do much in using the services of the labour exchanges which have a large fund of knowledge and accumulated   human experience, and good will. They do much now, but I think that they are suffering from a sense of uncertainty because so many of their functions are being taken away. They need encouragement and assurance that we believe they have a vital part to play in the vocational guidance and selection and training of our people. This aspect of vocational training is most important in the forms of employment we are discussing today. I am referring to non-industrial employment, often made up of small concerns which have not the means to grapple with these problems individually, This form of employment attracts a large proportion of our young people at the very beginning of their careers, the most formative period of their working lives. I believe we must look at the regulations governing the employment of women in industry so that they can make their full contribution to the economic progress of this country. I believe that we must press on with schemes such as the commercial apprentice scheme, which has been inaugurated recently. It is in these ways that I believe we can progress and build good conditions, good human relations in our industrial life. However, human conditions and human relations depend not only on good working conditions. They can attract the right kind of response, they can attract the right kind of mentality in our everyday life, but of themselves they are not enough. Hon. Members must bear with me if, in my attempts not to be controversial, I range too widely on the important subjects we are discussing this afternoon, because they are subjects which lie close to my heart. My war service and my industrial service and experience has always been concerned with these great problems of work study and vocational guidance and training. I cannot see our industrial legislation as a jigsaw puzzle of which there remain only a few more pieces with which to complete the picture. I believe that it is a journey that we are all making together and that in mapping the course of this journey we must not dissipate our energies in going over the outworn prejudices of the past. We must not look over our shoulders to the mistakes that were  made in our early industrialisation. Mistakes were made which left bitterness and misery which are still with us. What we must do is to look to the future and realise that in this journey our responsibility is to ensure that we get the greatest possible human understanding.
