gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech as the first hon. Member for Northampton, South. I do so in the knowledge that this Parliament and previous Parliaments have listened to many interesting contributions by hon. Members from Northampton. Not least among those contributions were those over the past 28½ years from a person who, on many occasions, had feelings towards the Conservatives, although he voted reasonably consistently with the Labour Party. He served the people of Northampton loyally and honestly, and the thanks of the people go to him. The name of my constituency confuses the electorate. Although called Northampton, South it stretches from west to east. On its western boundary is the village of Duston, a prosperous and growing community, with a long history and tradition. The community is centred on the fortunes of the ball bearing industry, through the firm British Timken. The town also had a castle, but because of Northampton's support of the parliamentary cause it was demolished by Charles II. The town also has a number of great shoe companies, known across the world—firms like Church, Hawkins, Allinson and others, which are household names. To the east is the grammar school, founded in 1541, at which thousands of Northamptonians were educated, including one senior hon. Member on the other side of the House. Today there is a cloud over that school because certain misguided local officials and elected persons wish to destroy it. They may try, but they shall not succeed. Far to the east, beyond the residential areas of Weston Faye11, is the development area. In 1968 Northampton was designated for expansion and it is this expansion of the town that brings me to the matter under debate. Our expansion is the fastest in England. Northamptonshire is the fastest growing county in England and we hope that Northampton will live up to Defoe's description as the handsomest and best built town in England. When the decision was taken to expand the town it was on the basis of a partnership agreement between the old county borough and the development cor-  poration. It was taken on the understanding that there should be no financial burden on the town. It was felt that the town was doing its duty in accepting people from London and Birmingham. The town made these people feel happy and at home, but it was always understood that there would be no financial burden arising from this. However, I already see signs of the Treasury this year beginning to wriggle out of this understanding a little, and the financial burden is starting to arise. I also see signs from the Government that no extra provision has been made to help Northampton over this burden. In standing here, I have the unique advantage of being at one and the same time an alderman of one of the poorest of the London boroughs—Islington—and representative of one of the growing towns in the centre of England. I hope that this depth of experience gives me a unique understanding of the dual problems. We all know and well understand the philosophy of the rate support grant, which is to give particular help to the inner urban areas that need so much help. But there seems to be no allowance in any element of the grant for those towns, such as Northampton, that are playing their part in alleviating that burden. I plead with the Government to ensure that in these days of largesse, of which there seems to be an abundance, the people of Northampton are not financially exploited. I believe that the Treasury could and would, if instructed, look more sympathetically on us and other new towns. I hope that the rate burden on the new towns will be borne in mind in the promised review which was mentioned earlier this afternoon. I turn to the computing of the rate support grant. For reasons best known to successive Governments, it has always been based on past population—in the case under consideration, on the population at mid-1972. But do hon. Members realise that in expanding areas—to take only the example of education—5,000 extra children go to school each year, at an average cost of £200 a head? That means that in just the two years since that base was formed the people of Northampton have lost the best part of £2 million. In the past there were adjustments, which helped the end-year balances, but this year there is to be nothing. However, we believe that there is to be an interim award. If so, is it to be made across the board or where the shoe pinches? In theory, the needs element reflects the needs of an area, yet the criteria are based on such things as children in care. It would pay my local authority and others to put more children in care, so as to receive more rate support. There is no consideration of the dynamic element or the preventive situation. Next, I turn to the announcement of the flat rate 13p for domestic ratepayers, which has caused such controversy today—an announcement made, so it is said, after full and frank consultation with the local authority representatives. I am told, however, that the Press release was issued within seconds afterwards. I believe that the time it took to get out that Press release has set a record for any administration in post-war history. It is a question not just of the cavalier approach to the consultation, or lack of it, but of the total failure of the incoming Government to understand how local authorities are run. Local government has been reorganised throughout the country. New members and officers have spent hours and days going through their estimates, cutting them back when requested and replanning and rephasing them. They had them all tailored to await the rate support grant. They were prepared to wait until the election for the grant, and then they prepared the rate demands all ready to be sent out. Did the Labour Party say anything about this matter in the election campaign? It did not say a word. No warning was given, so the demands were prepared. Then, like a bolt from the blue—or perhaps one should say ""a flash of inspiration""—came the Government's extraordinary announcement. Why was that announcement necessary? Was it that the cities or the London boroughs faced insurmountable problems? By any objective assessment, they did not. Indeed, when we compare the level of assistance that the previous Government gave to inner urban areas with the paltry sum that we were offered in 1968–70, we know that the inner urban  areas were treated very well and were well looked after. No, it must be something else, something so important that the whole of local government had to be turned upside down at this delicate time in its history. I hope that we shall learn from the Minister who is to conclude the debate what it was that was so important. The Government will have to make clear why these changes had to take place so late in the day. Do they know of the number of hours of work which have been thrown out of the window? Do they appreciate the enormous problems which they have created throughout the country? Do they realise just how much the rates will now rise? In my town, which will not suffer the highest rise, the increase will be 54 per cent. Little wonder that people in towns like mine are saying, ""Forget about the bread subsidy and look to the rates, because that is the burden that will hit us."" Damage will be done unless hon. Members on both sides of the Chamber think about the problem enough to reject what has been put before us, or the Government are prepared to table an amendment. It is not too late to move such an amendment. I make a series of pleas for the future. I make them for all expanding towns in general and for Northampton in particular. Incidentally, I understand that it has been graciously accepted to receive a deputation from Northampton on Wednesday. My plea is, first, to ensure that any interim award goes to those who make a case rather than an across-the-board award. My second plea is that the Treasury is instructed to look generously towards towns which are doing their part in helping the inner urban areas. My third plea—and this is the crux—is to ask that we move to a more dynamic model, with an allowance for known increases, such as those of schoolchildren, so that the proper level of rate support goes where needed. It should not be beyond the bounds of possibility to produce a system that works simply. My fourth plea is that if there is a shortage of resources we should consider the regional water authorities. Let us look at their budgeting. I have it on good authority that they asked every district to decide what it would like to do, to add 15 per cent. for inflation, then to add   another amount for contingencies and then to add whatever else an authority thinks it might have to do. The net result, taking the Anglian Water Authority as an example, is an increased precept of 62 per cent. Here is a tree that needs pruning. British local government is justly thought throughout the world to be one of the very best. It can be if Ministers will let it and if central Government will understand it. I make no apologies for frequently mentioning the town of Northampton, South and Northamptonshire in general.
