gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am extremely grateful for the opportunity of speaking and it is with a keen sense of the fellowship we enjoy in this House that I rise to make my maiden speech. I pay tribute to the friendship extended not only from the Chair but also from right hon. and hon. Members in all parts of the House to new Members like myself. At no time is this perhaps more apparent than at the testing moment when a Member makes his maiden speech. I shall therefore have little difficulty in trying to make a non-controversial speech and I hope to carry the House with me in some of the thoughts I shall express. My constituency has been carved out of the old Chichester and Arundel and Shoreham constituencies. My predecessors included the late Henry Kerby and Bill Loveys, who were well known to many hon. Members and are affectionately remembered. Subsequent Members include my right hon. Friend the Member for Chichester (Mr. Chataway) and my hon. Friend the Member for Shoreham (Mr. Luce). It would perhaps be invidious of me to say too much about two sitting Members; my comments might be misconstrued. However, the examples they have set in the early assumption of ministerial and Whip's responsibilities are certainly worthy of emulation, although it is perhaps wise to remind myself that lightning rarely strikes thrice in Sussex. The new Arundel constituency takes in a large slice of the Sussex coast, stretching from Pagham in the west to Ferring in the east. It includes Littlehampton, Bognor Regis and other seaside towns. To the north it lies along the foot of the Sussex Downs and it includes, of course, the mediaeval town of Arundel. While there are important light engineering industries and boat building in Bognor and Littlehampton, it is in three main areas that the industries of my constituency lie and, with permission, I shall give a brief account of them. The first main industry is horticulture. Along the coastal plain of Sussex there are orchards, market gardens and, above all, glasshouses. In the stretch of coast I have described there are about one-tenth of the glasshouses of the United  Kingdom. This area includes well-known mushroom growers, the country's largest tomato and flower nurseries and the leading glasshouse research institute in Britain. Our second main industry is perhaps predictable, given the mild climate and sandy beaches which we enjoy. It is the holiday industry. In addition to Bognor Regis and Littlehampton and the other seaside resorts along our coast, we have a long tradition of attracting holidaymakers. Bognor Regis may have its Butlin's but, while I make no invidious comparison, perhaps the outstanding characteristic of the coastline is the quiet, unspoilt charm which brings holidaymakers back year after year. Some find the temptation to stay amongst us well nigh overwhelming. This brings me to the third industry—the retirement industry. In my electorate of 83,000 people there are 38,000 aged over 65. Allowing for even a modest number of women over 65 and for widows, over half of the people in my constituency are retired. I do not know how one measures comparisons with other constituencies, but I suggest that this puts me high in the league of representing pensioners. I may be competing for a title in this respect with my hon. Friend the Member for Worthing (Mr. Higgins). As there are so many pensioners in my constituency it will not surprise the House that my view of the Budget is concerned with the way it affects pensioners. It has now been clearly shown that the main parties are agreed on at least the two major objectives of pension policy, the first being that the pensioner is the most important sector in our social security system. Secondly, we are all agreed that pensions should be kept ahead of rises in the cost of living. We are entitled to be proud of the work of the Conservative Government in this sector, but I am equally glad to welcome some of the Budget proposals made in this regard by the Labour Government. However, there is a great danger in debating on a competitive basis ""who does what"" for the pensioner. I turn therefore to some of the principles which should underlie the thinking of all Governments regarding the pensioner. It has been said many times in the House that we are now all minority   parties. It is equally true that we shall all be pensioners—a salutary thought when we address ourselves to the subject. If I am attempting to review some of the basic principles, it is with a sense of trying to remove some of the remaining injustices and difficulties which many pensioners face. I put three specific proposals to the Government. These proposals are primarily designed for the Secretary of State for Social Services and I hope that her colleagues will convey them to her. If in the concluding speech there are no specific assurances on my points, I hope that there will be at least agreement in principle. First, I wish to urge consideration of the position of the reduced-rate pensioner. Many other hon. Members must have constituents like mine who accepted a reduced pension 10 years or more ago. At that time the difference between a reduced-rate pension and the ordinary flat-rate pension was in many cases marginal. Many people who had not sufficient stamps in the qualifying period looked at the difference and decided that the reduced pension was a reasonable settlement. However, the problem is that there have since been steady increases in the absolute rate, as most recently evidenced in the Budget, while the reduced-rate pensioner has been getting only pro rata increases, and cases of hardship have resulted. Given that increases in pensions are supposed to reflect increases in the cost of living the full rate of increases in pensions should be granted to all pensioners, irrespective of starting point and irrespective of any modest private means. That brings me to my second proposal. I add my voice to those on all sides of the House—the matter has been debated many times—who seek the abolition of the notorious earnings rule for pensioners. ""Notorious"" is the word, since if there is one subject which arouses anger and a feeling of injustice among my pensioners it is this rule, because of the thought that it discourages many of them from trying to maintain their independence. Many do not want to go on to supplementary benefit. Whichever party is in power, the Government should try to find a way to help the elderly who seek to be thrifty and wish to look after themselves. I am glad that  the previous Conservative Government, and now the present Government, relaxed the earnings rule, but I urge the Government to commit themselves in principle, as my party has done, to the total abolition of the earnings rule. I come finally to the question of longterm proposals for improving the lot of the pensioner. Here we should address our minds to the possibility of earlier retirement. The Government, as the largest employer, can lead the way. They can set the example. There is abundant medical evidence in support of earlier retirement. I believe that many of us take the view that in this day and age retirement at 60 would be equitable, given the new equal status of men and women. It will be argued that the cost of retirement at 60 would be high; I believe that it has been estimated at about £750 million. That could be offset, however, by a progressive reduction in the form the benefit takes. We could have something like the Belgian system, with earlier retirement on phased scales of the total pension figure in that way moving towards the earlier retirement that I suggest. It is very important that we take advantage of the new climate of opinion in which all sections of our community, particularly the trade union movement, are taking an increasing interest in the idea of earnings-related pensions and earlier retirement. As we move more and more into a service economy, so it is appropriate that that kind of provision should be made. In that way we may use the energies and talents of a rising labour force of both pre- and post-retirement ages. I return to where I began, with one eye on the clock. As a spokesman for a largely retired constituency, I have tried to show that many right hon. and hon. Members could do worse than retire into my constituency. We have there an undertaker with a somewhat sombre sense of humour, as perhaps befits his profession. He is a formidable debater. His technique is very simple. He allows the argument to run its course and then, when he sees the other side pausing for breath, simply says ""I've seen 'em come, I've seen 'em go, but I gets 'em all in the end."" We may not be so fortunate as to attract you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and other right hon. and hon. Members to   retire to my constituency, but I hope that I have been able to carry with me tonight the general sentiments of the House. If, beyond that, Mr. Deputy Speaker, you choose to retire to my constituency, you will receive a warm and friendly greeting, such as the House has extended to me tonight.
