gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will bear with me  for a few moments while I enter into this debate and make my maiden speech. As an Irishman, I feel that the foreign policy of any Government should be aimed to achieve one objective—world peace. I think everybody agrees on that, but, in order to achieve that objective, we have to recognise one basic principle, and that is the right of free and equal partnership for all the nations of the world. To quote President Truman when he spoke at San Francisco on 4th September, 1951: The peoples of our country want, and are determined to have, a world at peace, where there is justice and freedom for all nations. In this respect, I believe that this Government, and, indeed, past British Governments, have a wrong conception of nationalism. According to the policy of this Government, it would seem that nationalism, as applied to some countries, is a very great virtue, but, in other countries, it would seem to be regarded as a very great vice. That is not true of the world today, because we have reached a stage in our civilisation when every country can manage its own affairs, without being a menace to its neighbours or a danger to world peace. As an Irishman and an Ulsterman, I took a special interest in the Prime Minister's visit to America. The right hon. Gentleman had a wonderful opportunity, as a professed democrat, to enlist world opinion over there for international peace, but I am afraid that it is just another case of having missed the bus. During that visit, the Prime Minister made two statements with regard to Ireland. In one, he is quoted as saying that Britain will never consent to a plebiscite in Ireland, and in the other he says that Britain will never desert Northern Ireland. To the Irish people, these statements constitute a threat, they are wholly inconsistent with democracy and have only succeeded in estranging the whole Irish race, both the Irish people in Ireland, in America and all over the world. The Prime Minister should have been well aware of the wishes of the Irish people, because in 1918, which was the last opportunity which the Irish people had of voting as a whole, over 80 per cent. of them voted for a free Ireland, and that position holds good today. I feel that, in this matter, I am merely pushing an open door, because both the   Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have made specific statements in this respect. The Prime Minister himself said, in 1948: The will of the people, expressed in conditions of freedom and universal franchise, must prevail. That is our root principle. The Leader of the Opposition said, in 1947: We are seeking, not to enforce our views on other people, but to try to see to it that every nation and every country and people are freely able to choose their own form of Government. What has occurred to cause these two right hon. Gentlemen to change their views? Why did they insist on maintaining a minority rule in Northern Ireland by force and at a time when the country could be of immense value, not only to this country alone, but to the whole western world? The days of minority rule went out with Lord Salisbury, and we hope they will never return, unless the Prime Minister envisages a dictatorship. We hope not. The will of the people must prevail in every country everywhere, and the sooner this Government realises that fact the better it will be for everybody, for Britain and the whole world. I should like, on behalf of my colleague and myself, to state that we do not desire to take any part in the domestic affairs of this country. Neither do we desire to be affiliated with any party here, but, to show our detestation of the policy of the present Government in having failed absolutely to make any approach towards a just solution of the Irish problem, we shall vote against the Government tonight. We seek the co-operation of all parties in our effort to achieve Irish unity. That is our sole objective here—to achieve the unity of Ireland—and I say to hon. Members of all parties: the friendship of the Irish people is worth having you can have it for the asking. It only requires one simple operation—take your troops out of the Six Counties and leave Ireland for the Irish.
