gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech during the Second Reading of this important Bill. I am the new Member of Parliament for Rochford, Essex. It is a new constituency made up of the district of Rochford and the five villages of the borough of Chelmsford: Runwell, Ramsden Heath and Downham, South Hanningfield and Rettendon, Woodham Ferrers, and South Woodham Ferrers. The constituency is half rural and has many acres of agricultural land. There is also a lot of green belt that is zealously protected by those who live in the constituency. The other half is urban and includes the adventurous new town of South Woodham Ferrers. That new town is being planned and organised by Essex county council, but is being built with private capital. The constituency stretches from the outskirts of Chelmsford in the west to Foulness in the east. Foulness in now in the hands of the Brent geese once again, having survived the attempts made some years ago to turn it into a major international airport. The northern boundary of the constituency is the river Crouch and to the south are the conurbations of Southend, Basildon and South Benfleet. Rochford is an ancient hundred, dating back many centuries. The last peer to carry that name, Anne Boleyn's brother, fell into disgrace with Henry VIII and lost his life. The land of Rochford reverted to the Crown and stayed with it for a few years until being given as a pension by the King to his fourth wife Anne of Cleves. So you will see, Mr. Speaker, that that pension was given at not much net cost to the monarch. As in the 16th century there were many changes in the ownership of the Rochford hundred, so in the 20th century there have been several Members of Parliament to look after the area's political affairs. Those of my hon. Friends who are new Members of Parliament have paid tribute to their predecessors. Generally, they have each had only one predecessor and for a variety of reasons that predecessor has usually left the House. My task is a little more onerous, because I have three predecessors, all of whom are still Members of Parliament. First, I pay tribute to my right hon. Friend the Member for Chelmsford (Mr. St. John-Stevas) who looked after the Chelmsford villagers so well from 1964 until the last election. His wit and personality are greatly missed. From 1974 until the election the Rochford area of the constituency—the largest part of my new constituency—was looked after by my right hon. Friend the Member for Colchester, South and Maldon (Mr. Wakeham). He looked after that area diligently and has had a distinguished career in Parliament. He has been very kind to me since my selection early this year, and I thank him very much for all that he has done. Indeed, I would have paid him that tribute even if he had not been appointed Chief Whip of our party. The person to whom I wish to pay particular tribute is my hon. Friend the Member for Castle Point (Sir B. Braine). He has represented many parts of Essex in his political career. From 1955 to 1974 he represented almost the whole of the constituency that I now represent and during that time, and until the last election, he represented the town of Rayleigh, which is the population centre of my constituency. Thus, for 28 years he represented Rayleigh and he is greatly loved—there is no other word—in that town. I know how much he is respected in the House and I believe that I can say that he has become the elder statesman of politics in eastern Essex. I also thank my hon. Friend the Member for Castle Point for all that he has done for me. He has shown great kindness and has helped me enormously both in the constituency and in the House. There is little industry in the Rochford constituency. Many of those in the area travel to Southend or London to work. However, some people work at Fords, at Dagenham and at Dunton. Many people also travel to Chelmsford to work for Marconi. They work in the electronics industry and are part of a giant organisation that has specific interests in telecommunications. There are three principal forms of communication with the Rochford constituency. First there are the roads. The principal road is the A127 from London to Southend. That road has been greatly improved in recent years but it is still congested and dangerous. During my time as Member of   Parliament for Rochford I shall do my best to see that more money is spent on it so that it can be turned into a safer, faster and better road for traffic travelling to and from the Rochford area and Southend. The second form of communications is the railway. It runs between Southend, Victoria, and Liverpool street and is subject to much criticism. There can be no doubt that those who use it have to suffer an inadequate service that is often disrupted by industrial action. Many people feel that the railway would provide a better service if it were privatised. The third form of communications is telecommunications. Everyone in the constituency uses that form of communication from time to time, and if the railway would be better privatised, so would the telecommunications service. I support the Bill. With private telecommunications we shall better be able to have innovation and improved technology within our telecommunications service. If politics is the art of the possible, technology is surely a science of change. Change is usually brought about in a competitive environment. Throughout history, scientists have responded to national emergency, commercial challenge and technological competition. A private telecommunications system will mean an improvement in BT's service. Much of its service has been indifferent. For example, those who try to make telephone calls on bank holidays, such as Christmas, are told that the service is run down and that we should not expect a good service at such times. Many people have wished for a choice of equipment, but have been told to take or leave the black standard ""Henry Ford"" type telephone. Choice has improved since liberalisation, and will improve a great deal more with privatisation. The charge to restore our telephones to working order outside normal working hours is excessive. A service, in the true sense of the word, has not been provided in that area. There will be an expansion of the telecommunications service when the industry is privatised. That will bring about more jobs in an age that is ever more technological. The more technological we become, the more jobs will be created. We must be careful that we do not move from a public monopoly to a private monopoly. Under the Bill, competition for BT is limited. It consists of the Mercury trunk lines and not much else—certainly nothing in the network. If we are to fight the excesses of public monopolies with a private company, we must ensure that the licence agreed between Oftel and the Secretary of State contains those things that are necessary to make certain that the public get a fair deal from something that is close to a private monopoly. BT must not be allowed to exercise commercial control over its competitors through licensing, or over its suppliers through monopoly purchasing powers. It must not be allowed to exploit its privileged position by charging exorbitant fees to the general public who use its services. It must not he allowed to neglect the needs and wishes of its customers and must be encouraged constantly to take into account the services provided by similar organisations in other countries. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Leominster (Mr. Temple-Morris) that it is important that BT continues to provide a service to rural areas—to those 77,000 kiosks from which the majority of 999 calls are made. Without details of the licence, we have to take the Bill a little on trust. We know that the draft licence will be available in October and that there will be negotiations  between BT and the Government. I am sure that we all know that constant changes to the licence will be needed once it has been laid before the House. Until competition for BT is well established, it will be necessary to review the licence from time to time. I was, therefore, delighted when my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State said that the licence would be laid before the House and that Parliament would have the opportunity to debate it. The Bill will be of great advantage to Britain, to industry and to technology. I hope that we protect the measure by ensuring that the licence comes regularly before the House for debate, thereby ensuring that the advantages of the Bill are permanently maintained.
