gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Dorset, North (Colonel R. H. Glyn), I ask for the indulgence of this House as this is the first time that I have had the privilege of addressing it. I should also like to mention my predecessor, Sir William Darling, who. I know, was a very popular Member in this House, and whose retirement through ill-health is much regretted. I was very pleased to see in the Gracious Speech reference to the development of our Colonial Territories. Here I should like to pay tribute to members of the Colonial Service. Very often policy decisions are issued in this country, and directive go out, but we overlook the difficulties of the men who have to implement them. Frequently, they are handicapped by lack of adequate staff, lack of funds, and lack of understanding of their position. Very often, their deeds are misrepresented by foreign nations. All these things they have to fight against, but nevertheless, our Colonial Service is staffed by men and women of great integrity, men and women who spend their lives—often at great cost to themselves—in furthering the welfare of colonial peoples, and I should like to pay respect to them. It seems to me that there is one small way in which we could recognise their services; that is, to grant them the vote in this country. As I understand, under the Representation of the People Act, a Crown servant employed overseas and paid from United Kingdom funds has the franchise here. That means that a certain number of colonial servants do have a vote in this country because they are paid from United Kingdom funds, but the vast majority do not because they are paid from colonial funds. It seems that it would be a reasonable and generous step to place those men who are recruited here and who are domiciled in Britain in the same position as members of the Armed Forces and to grant them the vote. I hope that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies will look into that matter. There is one particular point to which I should like to refer, the question of how our information and publicity services in Arabia and East Africa may be improved. Great advances have been made in those territories, but very often, because of the deplorable lack of publicity services, our achievements are belittled and we are thrown on the defensive. It must be remembered, and I am sure the House knows, that Cairo Radio can daily reach thousands in Arabic and millions in the Swahili language and that much of this propaganda is, indeed, hostile. When I left Aden three years ago, there was no anti-British  feeling, but I am sorry to say that today the position has changed. It is because the people of Aden have been influenced by this hostile propaganda. Against that, we have the B.B.C. Its Arabic programmes are often excellent, but it has to cover a very wide and diverse area, including advanced countries like Syria and mediæval lands like the Yemen, and sometimes its programmes are very unsuitable. I was told, but have not been able to verify it, that not long ago it had a programme on the life and habits of the grasshopper. That programme cannot have had a great following in Arabia. There is obvious need for a much closer liaison between our local officials on the spot and programme planners in this country. In addition to the B.B.C., there are local stations but, frequently, these are handicapped by lack of finance and lack of staff. The one in Aden, for example, is a most ramshackle affair and the total vote for publicity services in that Colony is under £30,000 a year, plus a grant of £8,000 from Colonial Development and Welfare Funds. Not much can be done with that. I do not blame the local staff: I know many of them; they work hard, but they just have not the tools. I know that expansion will cost money. One means would be by setting up an efficient organisation for Aden and the East African territories, an efficient broadcasting organisation, so that the resources of those countries could be pooled. Within that framework programmes can be directed to each local territory according to its needs, the state of its educational services and general standards obtaining. There is one other point. Throughout Aden, the Protectorate and the East African Territories down to Zanzibar, there is a vast quantity of local military, police and security forces. In the Aden Protectorate there are six such forces. All have different standards of recruiting, different uniforms and different equipment. Here, surely, is a field where some sort of uniformity can be undertaken. We can streamline those forces and get much greater efficiency while saving much money which could go towards our propaganda services and broadcasts. I wonder, once again, whether my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies will look into this matter. Finally, I should like to say that territories like Malaya have reached maturity and have taken their places in the Commonwealth, but that we must not overlook the needs and aspirations of the small territories. It is my belief that very few, if any, of them will be able to stand on their own feet and be fully self-supporting. Nevertheless, they must develop and we must help them to do so. One way out may be to ask the great Dominions to interest themselves more in such Colonies which lie within their orbits. The British Commonwealth is changing. It will need all our imagination to ensure that as Colonies come to be more self-supporting they stay within the family circle. I have great faith in our nation and in the Commonwealth. I hope that careful consideration will he paid to these matters which are supremely important and take precedence over any question of European free trade or anything of that sort.
