gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not think that I am the last of your maiden speakers, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, because the flow of maiden speakers in the House never stops, but I am certainly very late by the standards of this Parliament, although perhaps not by the standards of earlier Parliaments. One of my hon. Friends said to me the other day that it was time that I lost my virginity. I am not so sure of the propriety of making that statement to a bachelor Member, but I would not wish to draw it to your attention officially. I have the honour to represent the West Division of Nottingham, a city so ancient that it probably has always had a Member in the House. It was probably   one of the towns summoned to the Council of St. Albans in 1213, but, strangely enough, very few persons who have represented it in its previous history have attained great Parliamentary distinction. This is probably for the simple reason that before 1832 it was one of the cities with a very wide franchise and ""democracy"" before 1832 was a rather dirty word to Parliamentarians. Oddly enough, its representatives have included persons who were referred to by my right hon. Friend the Minister when he spoke of the gentlemen of Printing House Square, because among my predecessors in the city or the county have been previous proprietors of The Times. I have an interest in the Bill because the overwhelming majority of my constituents are affected by it. Although there are on the edges of the constituency great factories such as those of Players, Boots and Raleigh, my constituency is a primarily residential area and the majority of my constituents are tenants of some landlord or other. All of them, I am glad to see, will now have permanent security of tenure, even including local authority tenants and any Crown tenants that there may be. I particularly mention local authority tenants because the overwhelming majority of tenants in my constituency are tenants of the local authority. This brings me to what seem to me to be slight omissions in the Bill, because although all tenants, whoever the landlord may be, have full security of tenure, rent regulation applies only to those who are tenants of private landlords. Yet on page 5 of the White Paper, there is the statement that ""full security requires rent regulation"". If it does, it seems that one might possibly have considered applying rent regulation to the Crown or even local authorities. There are, admittedly, difficulties, but surely these public bodies have nothing to fear from rent regulation. As they have nothing to fear, why not provide for their tenants as well? I should like to turn to another possible omission from the Bill, in that it has an upper limit of rateable value, which the right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) argued was too high. My right hon. Friend the Minister also mentioned that it had been argued to him that it was too high. I  dislike limits of this kind, in the sense that one is always providing one law for the rich and one law for the poor, even though, in this case, it may be argued that the rich need little protection. The right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames might bear in mind, when talking of the tenants of properties such as he mentioned—those commanding a rent of up to £900—that in Central London I could take him to a two-bedroom flat the rent of which is £1,000 a year. It is occupied by four people, not one of whom has an income approximating to the rental of the premises, and some of whom do not even earn half the rental. I think that the right hon. Member, and right hon. Members on this side of the House, should remember that it is not always true that high value property is occupied by people with high incomes. The last category of people to which I want to refer is that of the tenants of private landlords. There are very few such tenants in my constituency, but, strangely enough, I referred to one of them during the election campaign. That tenant was a woman. I am glad to see that the provisions of the Bill would obviate the circumstances of her case ever arising again. This woman applied to a rent tribunal for some reduction in her rent. She was served by her landlord, who was also a woman, one of somewhat dubious antecedents, with a notice to quit. One might argue that such a notice was invalid, but, as one of my hon. and learned Friends pointed out in interrupting my right hon. Friend, although such notices to quit may be invalid, and may be known to be invalid by lawyers, they very often frighten a feminine tenant. This woman was served with a notice to quit. She had the sense to consult someone else, who told her that such notice was invalid. At this point, knowing that the tenant was about to appear before a rent tribunal the landlord offered to reduce the rent, upon certain conditions. The conditions were that the tenant should come to work for the landlord on the landlord's terms, for a wage which was not exactly comparable with wage rates for similar occupations in that area. This is the sort of thing which one would have thought had been removed by the Truck Acts of the nineteenth century—conditions attached to   work of this nature. I hope that it will come within the provisions of the Bill. I cannot, within the conventions of a maiden speech, follow the right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames in all that he said. I hope, upon a future occasion, that I may be able to do so. He imported into his speech a suggestion of dishonour on the part of my right hon. and hon. Friends and myself. He suggested that the Bill did not wholly fulfil the promises which we made to the electorate on our election platforms. I do not wish to follow him in a controversial spirit, but I do not think that the case of this woman, a constituent of mine in the Radford area of Nottingham, can, under the Bill, ever occur again. I mention her now, I hope for the last time. I feel that it is the last time, in that the Bill has removed the possibility of this occurring again. I feel that by introducing the Bill, my right hon. Friend has redeemed my honour and that of my colleagues. I am quite satisfied with it, and I believe that the country will be, too.
