gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not know what else I have in common with the hon. Member for Derbyshire, South (Mrs. Currie), but I certainly share her nervousness on my first attempt to address the House. If a new Member of Parliament's level of nervousness is an indicator of his suitability for service to the House, I shall surely qualify on that count alone. Those right hon. and hon. Members who served in the previous Parliament will recall the regularity with which the previous Member for Leeds, West, Joseph Dean, addressed himself to the problems of cities and, in particular, of the constituency. He had a particular regard for housing issues and was certainly assiduous in raising in the House the problems of housing in Leeds. I know that defeat came as a great blow to Joe Dean and I can genuinely appreciate his feelings. Indeed, given the electoral record of my party, we can perhaps sympathise more than most—particularly as I know that some hon. Members believe, in the words of Rebecca West, that To be wiped out by the Liberal party is like being run over by a hearse. West Leeds has escaped many of the ravages of massive road construction that have carved up communities in many cities and, indeed, in other parts of Leeds. There has been, it is true, far too much clearance of houses and shops, but the individual communities within west Leeds maintain their identities with a firm but friendly rivalry. Some such as Armley, Bramley, Burley, Kirkstall and New Farnley could make an excellent case for the introduction of urban parish councils. Others with large council estates could certainly benefit from increasing tenant management of their estates. These are lively communities with very shrewd people, who certainly would not let me get away down here in Parliament with anything with which they disagreed. I am glad to be able to make my maiden speech today, because my five years as a member of a police authority have given me a greatly enhanced respect for the police service and better perception of the problems that the police face day by day. But however it may sometimes seem to individual police officers, I doubt whether any right hon. or hon. Member, or any member of a police authority, would wish to do other than fully support the police. The question that engages us all is how best to do it. I noted the remarks made by the right hon. Member for Birmingham, Sparkbrook (Mr. Hattersley) on this point, and I have become increasingly convinced that the isolation of the police from the other services and processes of government has been a major factor in the deterioration of the stability and security of our cities and in the consequent pressures on the police. Politicians of all parties—both locally and nationally —have tended to devise grand designs for their areas. They have demolished and rebuilt with involvement from the early stages of education, housing, social services and so on, but without any broad input from the police. In very  many cases the result has been a housing estate or district centre that, by its very design, is virtually unpoliceable. There are estates in many constituency — such as Hawksworth, Fairfield, Wyther Park or Sandford; deck access flats elsewhere such as Hunslet Grange, to which my predecessor constantly referred, and ""walk-up"" maisonettes, such as at Raynville — whose layout and design inhibit the self-policing and psychological defence of space that is the crucial basis of local security. We have created problem areas and then wondered why the police have problems policing them. Therefore, it is particularly appropriate that the first statement on policing strategy that the new chief constable of west Yorkshire recently made to his police committee should include the following statement: The security needs of different residential groups will be determined and, in conjunction with other agencies, security conscious architectural design concepts developed. It may be appropriate to appoint a police officer to liaise with the Architectural Services, so that new developments are geared towards 'designing out' crime. This will clearly help to get the attitude right in the planning processes. However, I am far from convinced that the reintroduction of the Police and Criminal Evidence Bill, even taking note of the amendments made in its previous innings here, will help to improve the relationship between police and public. A retrograde tendency of much legislation in recent years has been to develop more and more detailed rules to try to govern behaviour and to accommodate the infinite varieties of need. Apparently sound arguments are put forward based on open government, ease of challenge or appeal, and so on, but the sad fact is that in human society and relationships rules rarely improve attitudes. An increasing dependence on detailed rules, though plausible, is counter-productive, detracting, as it may, from the development of good relationships between officials and public. Clearly there must be some rules, but the Bill's provisions — for example, on stop and search, production of records and detention—are detrimental to relations between police and public and will, in the long run, damage the status of the police. I turn briefly to the local government proposals in the Gracious Speech. In 1972 the then Conservative Administration set aside the considered conclusions of an independent Royal Commission and imposed their own structure on local government. The present Government now try to ignore their responsibility for the existence of metropolitan councils by pretending that they are too expensive. That assumes that the services that they administer would magically disappear. There would be slight savings on administration, but the overriding consideration must surely be the vitality of local democracy and the dangers of centralising power. Already there is too much central Government power in local government, as well as the power of individual Ministers to appoint to regional bodies, such as health and water authorities. The thought of Ministers directing more services is certainly alarming. The possession of power is always dangerous. Only by spreading power can we minimise its dangerous effects. The checks and balances of local elections each year within the life of a Parliament are the best deterrents to extreme action. What matters most is to have the appropriate level of government for the administration of services. There is no completely neat and tidy division. The problem is deciding   on the best solution available. That is why I regard opposition to two-tier government as a shibboleth. Most areas of Britain have had two-tier government. Most people never noticed when that involved the urban districts and the county councils, and most parts of the country will continue to have two-tier government. In England the problem is that the metropolitan counties are neither one thing nor the other. They are neither big enough to be strategic authorities nor small enough to be local authorities. They fall between the two. In that regard I noticed the interest displayed by the right hon. and learned Member for Southport (Sir I. Percival) in the alliance manifesto. The problems in his constituency are different, because Southport desperately wishes to escape the clutches of the metropolitan county council. We cannot escape the problem of what to do with services which are genuinely regional but which have no authority to administer them. If we wish people to be accountable for those services, we must have regional councils the members of which are directly elected. Members of the Liberal party certainly support the abolition of the metropolitan counties, but only if they are replaced by regional assemblies. That was also official Labour party policy for a long time. The proposal to abolish the GLC and the metropolitan counties demonstrates a lack of confidence in the ability of local Conservative candidates and associations to persuade their electors of the need for economy. If, as the Government say time and again, the high spending by certain authorities is so unpopular, why cannot Conservatives in those areas, fighting on a platform of stringent economy and tight control, win a majority of votes in those areas?
