gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise for the first time in this House. It is a moment of considerable trepidation. I think that I am lucky in one way, because the Bill which is before us is one which is not contentious. Therefore, temptation is not put in my way on this occasion. I have said that I viewed this moment with trepidation. Coming as I do from Westmorland, I wondered whether I could find some inspiration from the great Westmorland poet, William Wordsworth, at this moment. I remembered that he had written some lines on Westminster Bridge and I wondered whether there was some inspiration there. Unfortunately, I found none. But I found some lines he wrote at the same time which, I think, are appropriate in the life of any new Member of this House. At a particularly gloomy moment, at the same time as ""Ode on Westminster Bridge"", he wrote this: O friend! I know not which way I must look For comfort, being as I am, oppresst. I felt that this was particularly appropriate for this moment. I have great pleasure, too, in making reference to my predecessor in this House, because I follow Mr. William Vane, who served this House with great distinction for 19 years. He has left behind him a great warmth of feeling and great respect. He served this House with great distinction, serving at the Ministry of Pensions and at the Ministry of Agriculture. For that reason I feel that it is particularly appropriate that I, as his successor, should be speaking in an agricultural debate. He has now gone to another place, and I am sure that I speak for the whole House in wishing him well there. My constituency of Westmorland is mainly a rural county. It is one of the few one-county, one-seat constituencies left in England. I suppose that there are few Members of the House who represent a region of such scenic splendour as I do. Its countryside is varied. There are the lovely valleys and lovely hills of the Eden and the Lune Valleys. There is also, of course, the most famous region, the Lake District. This is an enormously varied place, varying from the gay beauty of Windermere to the precious tranquillity of Ullswater, which is a subject which I may wish to bring up on a more contentious occasion in the future. The main industry in my constituency is agriculture. But it is a type of agriculture which is somewhat removed from cereal growing and cereal marketing, which we are talking about this afternoon. The principal part of the agricultural industry in Westmorland is stock rearing, sheep production and milk production. I should like to speak about the Bill, first, on the impact which it has on those parts of our country and those parts of our agricultural industry which are devoted to stock rearing and milk production. I think that I can speak with a little authority on this subject, because a little   under two years ago I was lucky enough to be elected to a study group which the National Farmers' Union set up to examine and to try to find ways of improving cereal marketing. On that body, I was elected to represent the six Northern counties of England. Consequently, there was a very great preponderance among producers and among farmers in those areas to keep livestock and to be net users of cereals rather than net producers. During the last two years, as the feelings of that study group have emerged I think that it is true to say, that the findings and recommendations of that study group which was set up by the National Farmers' Union have had an enormous influence on the Bill which we are debating this evening. I have, during the last two years, had considerable consultation with farmers in the north of England who are net users and net consumers of cereals. I have found there a complete understanding of the aims of the Bill. I have found that there is no feeling at all among farmers who are net consumers of cereals that the Bill is a sort of ""barley barons' bonanza"". There is no feeling that this is a lurid plot by the barley producers of the eastern part of the country to jack up the price paid by the net users. The intention behind the Bill, as I understand it, is quite simply to ""bridge that gap"" between the price which home-produced cereals make on the home market and their value on the world market. It has come out over the years, as has already been said in this debate, that this gap has appeared where cereals produced at home were not making the price they were worth on the world market. There has been a poor history here. The Minister, I believe, has said already that the formation of this authority will see the end of the working party which published the guide prices. I think that it would be appropriate at this moment to pay a tribute to the work of the working party over the years. It has done a magnificent job. The gap between its guide prices and the actual market prices has shown where the problem lies. It needs to be closed and I hope that the Authority will be able to do the job. It should be said that the principal beneficiary of the Bill is the Ministry. The cereal producer himself will gain very little in total return through the  Bill. As the market price is pushed up, if possible to the price which the grain is worth on the world market, so the difference is then made up by smaller subsidies. But there are certain advantages to growers in the proposals. One of them is that the grower can expect to get more out of the market. If growers can obtain more from the market, this reduces the possibility that at a future Price Review the Ministry will say that the subsidy bill is too high and that they must lower the guarantee price. At the same time, if the price which home-grown grain fetches on the home market can be increased, there will be less danger that the industry in future will have to suffer the penalties which are imposed on the subsidy bill in a season when the standard quantity is exceeded and the market price has not reached the target indicator price. Net users of cereals understand quite well, certainly in the north of England, that there is likely to be a very small rise, if any rise at all, in feed costs because the basic price of cereals is likely to be marginally increased. There is very little evidence that we should expect a rise in the price of feeding stuffs because we are trying to get a fair price for home-produced cereals. It is also a very good thing, and much appreciated by the users of cereals, that they are to have representing them on the Authority people who are net users. In passing, may I support my right hon. Friend in his comments on the possibility of having on the Authority people who are not growers of cereals at all. I see little objection to that. I am sure that we all hope that the reserve powers which are contained in the Bill will not need to be used and that the arrangements for forward-contracting and advance payments will even out the supply of grain on to the market so that the price received will roughly equal what the grain is worth on the world market. But there ought to be some assurances from the Minister that in seasons such as that through which we have just passed these reserve powers will not be used with reluctance. These powers are the teeth of the Bill, and it would be a great mistake if they were to be left in abeyance over the years and not used. In the season through which we have just passed we experienced in August and the first   part of September an average market price for feeding barley of under 18s. a cwt. when the target indicated price was 19s. I hope that had the Authority been working in such a season, the reserve powers would have been used. I have been extremely glad to speak on the Bill. Cereal marketing has been virtually unchanged for 100 years, and I believe that the Bill, if it can be implemented in the way which we all want to see, will bring great stability to agriculture and particularly to those members of the industry who are producers of cereals. I think that we must strive for forward-contracting and an evening out of the supplies to the ultimate users. I see in the Bill a new vista in marketing lying ahead of us. I am most grateful to hon. Members for their tolerance. I am extremely happy that I have been able to play a small part in the passage of the Bill, for I believe that it marks an important landmark in agricultural marketing.
