gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this opportunity to address the House for the first time as the Member of Parliament for Langbaurgh—particularly in a debate on tenants' rights and participation. Those matters are of great importance to many of my constituents, as I shall explain later. I am the third Member of Parliament to represent the great constituency of Langbaurgh in the past 10 months. However, I assure the House that I shall make the most  earnest endeavours to ensure that right hon. and hon. Members are spared another maiden speech by a Member of Parliament for Langbaurgh for some considerable time to come. It is appropriate to pay tribute to the tremendous example shown by my two immediate predecessors—Dr. Ashok Kumar and the late Richard Holt. During Dr. Kumar's brief stay in this House, he gained a fine reputation for the methodical and thorough way in which he dealt with constituency queries. I have been reminded by right hon. and hon. Members in all parts of the House of the way that Dr. Kumar discharged his duties with great courtesy and charm—which are perhaps not the first two objectives that spring to mind when describing the late Richard Holt, who represented Langbaurgh with vigour, determination and unswerving loyalty from 1983 until his untimely death last September. Richard Holt always said that he would put Langbaurgh on the map, and he most certainly did. He was quick to pounce on anyone who dared to mispronounce the name of his beloved constituency, which is of course pronounced ""langbath"". He once told one of his great friends, my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, Hallam (Mr. Patnick), that he of all people should know the difference between a bar and a bath. Such was his manner. Thousands of people in my constituency would acknowledge that Richard Holt ruthlessly pursued their problems and obtained solutions, and would never take no for an answer. Above all, Richard Holt was a character, and one who will be sadly missed by us all. If it were possible to create a synthesis of my two immediate predecessors, I would have the perfect example to follow during my tenure as Member of Parliament for Langbaurgh. At the time of last year's by-election, one newspaper described my constituency as ""Little England"". I could not offer the House a more pleasing or appropriate description. Langbaurgh has the traditional ironstone mining communities in east Cleveland of Carlin and Howe, and Liverton mines. It has also the prosperous suburbs of Middlesbrough, Marton, and Nunthorpe. It has beautiful coastal beauty to the north, surrounded by Saltburn and the spectacular cliffs at Bouley, and to the south the North Yorkshire national park, whose pleasures many of us so frequently enjoy. Langbaurgh also embraces the thriving market town of Guisborough. Above all, it is a constituency of contrasts—between the inner city housing estates of Park End and Easterside in Middlesbrough, and the great rural swathes beyond Guisborough and Skelton. Leon Brittan represented the constituency when it was known as Cleveland and Whitby. On 7 May 1974, he told the House in his maiden speech that many parts of it contained more sheep than people and went on to say—with characteristic wit—that he did not wish to speculate whether, if the franchise were extended to the sheep, his majority would be increased or diminished. The principal industries served by my constituency are represented by ICI and British Steel. British Steel especially has secured a meteoric rise in its fortunes over the past eight years—one which is worthy of note. Before British Steel was returned to private hands on Teesside, it used to manufacture 1·5 million tonnes of steel per year; it then had 25,000 employees. Today, it manufactures 2·5   million tonnes with 5,000 employees. It has almost doubled its output with one fifth of the previous number of employees. Because of the huge amount that British Steel has invested in new technology, it is now recognised throughout the world as a leader in the manufacture of quality steel. It is bringing extra investment and jobs to my constituency in the securing of orders such as the Hong Kong harbour bridge, which was successfully completed last month. Such employment changes bring with them great challenges. During the early 1980s, when painful alterations were taking place, unemployment rose; but it is testimony to the ingenuity, optimism and dynamism of people in my constituency and the surrounding areas of Teesside that unemployment, which in 1987 stood at just over 16.1 per cent., now stands at just over 10 per cent. That is due to the huge expansion of small businesses, encouraged by the Teesside training and enterprise council, the Teesside Development Company and the Northern Development Company, working in partnership to sell the benefits of the marvellous Teesside area to business. They have sold it as a gateway to Europe for the future, benefiting from its port facilities. Many of my constituents long for a university and I am delighted to learn that—following changes in legislation in one instance and Government funding in the other—Teesside will have not one but two universities by the end of the year. It is very pleasing that Teesside is starting to build a reputation as an academic centre, as well as building on its proud industrial heritage. We have heard a number of excellent and informative speeches today. As I have said, the subject is very important to my constituency; it must have participated in just about every scheme going. There is the estate action scheme, for instance. In the past three years the amount received by Langbaurgh has doubled and the amount received by Middlesbrough has tripled. There is the right-to-buy scheme; more than 10,000 people in both areas have exercised the right to have a stake in their future. My hon. Friend the Member for Banbury (Mr. Baldry) was kind enough to mention the estate action boards. They, too, are gaining new dimensions and making new options available to tenants. There is also the city challenge money. Middlesbrough succeeded in gaining that money last year and I hope that Langbaurgh will do so this year. A large proportion of the money has gone into improving housing stock, which is most welcome. As one who has spent his entire life in the north-east, in and around many of the council estates, I know at first hand about the human misery that is all too often seen on them. I know about the heartache and the despair. It is a tragedy that so often, however well intentioned people are, the very concept of creating great swathes of public housing in our cities has brought about problems. Many of them are now used as social dumping grounds for the non-payers, for problem families, for people who would not fit into other estates in the suburbs. That has led to all sorts of social problems. The opportunities that have been referred to today will, I believe, break down the barriers that have existed for far too long in the inner cities. This country is unique in terms of the amount of public housing that it provides; 25 per cent. of the housing stock is in municipal hands. In Canada, New Zealand and Australia, however, only 5 per cent. of the housing stock is in municipal hands. When we are lectured, therefore, on  the European example, we must bear that fact in mind. We must remember, too, that the private rented sector in west Germany amounts to almost 50 per cent., whereas our private rented sector amounts to only 8 per cent. I am delighted that there will be opportunities to expand our private rented sector. If there is a challenge for all those who support what has been put forward so eloquently today, it is this: that just to state that people have the right to improve or to repair their homes, or just to state that there is choice for tenants or a tenants charter remains just words, unless those words are heard clearly by the people whom they are designed to help. We must all accept that challenge. We must ensure that the message that there are new rights and responsibilities and that there is an invitation to participate gets across to council tenants so that they can take advantage of it. That is a great challenge, particularly as the messengers who are responsible for carrying the good news are often less-than-sympathetic local authorities. The changes that are built upon the Housing Act 1980 and the Housing Act 1988 will, I believe, bring to an end the socially engineered inner city council estate as we know it. In future, opportunities will be offered to tenants by councils, housing associations and the private sector. An increasing number of people will take a stake in their future by purchasing their own homes, whether through the right to buy or the rents-to-mortgages schemes. In years to come, this will be seen as making the concept of the power to own and the right to choose a reality in our inner cities, where it is most needed.
