gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The great kindness and courtesy which I have received from hon. Members on both sides of the House since I was elected to it at the end of the last Session give me some confidence in asking for the traditional indulgence of the House to a Member making his maiden speech. It may seem a little odd that someone who, like myself, has spent most of the last twelve years among the hills of Argyllshire should be speaking to the House today on foreign affairs. I should like to say that I also welcome the words in the Gracious Speech which refer to the Government's proposals for agriculture, and I hope that if I have the fortune to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, in future debates I shall be able to speak on that matter, too. I think it is within the knowledge of the House that we from Argyllshire and from Scotland as a whole have played a very big part in building up many of our Dominions and Colonies and that we have not been backward in seeking our fortunes in foreign lands. When I was younger I also had the opportunity of spending   many months at the International Labour Office in Geneva and watching the great work of that organisation and the efforts of the nations in those days to achieve success through the League of Nations. I therefore welcome the phrase in the Gracious Speech which refers to the Government's determination to play a constructive part in support of the United Nations in an effort to procure peace, because I think we are all aware that the great purpose of all these international organisations is to try to prevent trouble from occurring. When we have a young organisation such as the United Nations, it is not playing a constructive part to sit back and say that we need do nothing about it. I welcome the suggestions made by my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary that we must have some independence of action and must maintain it if we are to keep our position in the world until some such time in the future when, perhaps, an international police force of some sort can take over this often difficult and invidious task. But we have to remember that, even if that were to happen, that force, too, would have to have a certain degree of independence of action if the speed which is so often necessary to prevent trouble from arising, or, if it has arisen, to prevent it from spreading, is to be successful. I do not on this occasion wish to raise any matter of controversy, and I hope that hon. Members will realise that I am trying to speak in general and not in particular of any specific event. But one of the inherent difficulties in any policy which sets out to prevent trouble is to be sure, if trouble does not arise, that we have, in fact, prevented it. Hon. Members on both sides of the House probably, like myself, occasionally feel that they have some symptoms which presage the arrival of the common cold. We usually rush with great speed to our favourite medicine, sometimes a liquid in a bottle and sometimes a pill, and the next morning, if we happen to awake feeling strong and well, we may feel inclined to recommend the remedy to our friends. On the other hand, we may sometimes wonder whether we were going to catch a cold at all. The other thing about which I should like to say a word or two is that, since  I have been in the House, I have listened with great interest to some very skilful and wise debates on the subject of the size of the Armed Forces we should maintain or can afford to maintain. Being a Scotsman, it is not unnatural that I should want to obtain the best possible value for money. I have not the necessary information to enable me to enter into a debate on this problem, but I feel that if we are to make the best use of whatever resources we can afford, one of the most essential things is that we should spend all that is necessary on our intelligence services—our intelligence services in the widest sense—because we know that it is only by getting the best possible information about the nature of the trouble, the place and the possible time when it may arise that we can deploy our forces most usefully. This is not entirely a military operation. There is a big element of civilian help in intelligence, too, and I cannot help wondering whether it is wise to close our consulates in different parts of the world for reasons of economy, perhaps, or whether it is wise that we should make it difficult for our citizens, through reasons of foreign exchange control, who, perhaps, have earned their living abroad and who would like to retire in the countries in which they have worked. Very often, those people are most useful in interpreting the feelings of those countries to us here. Lastly, there is the other battle which is going on continually by radio and Press and other methods called ""The battle of the mind."" I know that we are coming to the season when peace is rather naturally associated with the phrase ""good will amongst men"". I feel that there is a great deal that we in this country can do towards that end. I know that the Government have been carrying out exhaustive inquiries into the best methods of using the radio and the Press, and so on, to get our case across. I do, however, believe that there are things which we can do here at home. So many of our people overseas, in the Dominions and the Colonies, come to this country every year, perhaps as delegations, perhaps to take part in sporting events, or perhaps simply as tourists. I do feel that if we can help by accepting them as good hosts, by   showing them the traditions of this great country, by showing them the progress that we have made and by introducing them to a wide section of our country, any money that we can afford to spend in helping to do this will be well spent, because those people will then go back to their own lands as the best ambassadors of ours.
