gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My contribution on the rate support grant report will have to be strictly limited, as this is my maiden speech and, before commenting on the subject of the debate, I am happy to observe the convention of paying tribute to my predecessors and my constituency. To be given the opportunity of representing Great Yarmouth, where I have spent my life and where generations of my family have lived and worked, is a signal privilege. The borough of Great Yarmouth has sent representatives to the Commons since 1294. It has been represented by many distinguished men. Some have been noted or — depending on one's viewpoint — notorious rebels. In the early 17th century, Miles Corbett, when Member of Parliament for Yarmouth, put his signature—it is the last—on the death warrant of Charles I. By contrast, my immediate predecessor, Sir Anthony Fell, was very much a monarchist, but he was a rebel against his party when convinced that it was wrong. First elected in 1951 for Yarmouth, where his grandfather was the Member of Parliament before the war, Sir Anthony was a great champion of the role of Britain on the world's stage. He was also a great champion of the role of the House above Government. One of my 18th century predecessors, Sir Edward Walpole, son of the first Prime Minister, was Chief Secretary for Ireland. I am proud that since June, the Great Yarmouth constituency has included villages from the old Lowestoft constituency, now called Waveney and represented by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. My right hon. Friend's compassionate approach to political issues is greatly admired, especially by his former constituents who are now within the boundaries of my constituency. I trust that I shall keep in my mind my right hon. Friend's example of public service. My constituency combines a major seaside resort with the broadland villages for which my county is famous worldwide. Our holiday industry brings an annual turnover of about £100 million to the area. Our new marina centre, jointly developed by private and municipal enterprise, is the largest leisure and entertainments complex of its kind in the country. Every year, Great Yarmouth attracts 2 million tourists, and the rural area is noted for its intensive and successful agriculture. In the town, we are developing year-round industry, and our port is vital to that objective. We trade daily with The Hague, only 90 miles across the North sea, which gives access to the whole of Europe. The shipping handled by our port in 1983 totalled 3·5 million tonnes. Nearly half of that was the gross registered tonnage of offshore supply vessels to the North sea oil and gas rigs. It is essential for the future of our town that Norfolk is linked as soon as possible to the national motorway network by dual carriageway routes, to enable the port to continue to grow. The Norwich and Acle bypasses on the A47 are equally important to Great Yarmouth. Many hon. Members have mentioned the problems that the rate support grant report will cause for their local authorities. The authority responsible for major services in my constituency, Norfolk county council, is well known as a low spender. The council believes that it provides an acceptable level of local services at one of the lowest costs in the country. It frequently comes under pressure to increase spending, not least from Her Majesty's inspectors of schools. Norfolk's grant-related expenditure assessment has been set at £231 million, but if the county council spent up to that GREA, it would incur a penalty of £36 million. I know that there is no direct link between GREAs and targets. Indeed, talking about the GREA in relation to targets is as relevant as discussing the menu in the dining room as one sinks below the icy waters on the Titanic. The Great Yarmouth borough council, which is responsible for the other services in my constituency, is likely to be 3 per cent. over its target this year. For every pound spent over target, Great Yarmouth will lose £2·47 in grant. That is not a loss to the council; it is a loss to the people whom I have been sent here to represent. The penalty system devised by the Government can encourage higher rates than would otherwise be levied. If a council wishes to spend less than its target, it would be unwise to do so, because the following year's target would almost certainly be further reduced, as happened to Norfolk two or three years ago. Suffolk kept its spending up and benefited from a target for the following year that recognised that fact. Norfolk's target was reduced in line with its reduction in expenditure in the previous year. Great Yarmouth reduced its rate last year by 2p in the pound, in line with the Government's national policies. The borough council's position illustrates another aspect of the defects of the penalty system, which is that a council could levy a higher rate than necessary to increase balances using the added interest to decrease net expenditure and making it easier to keep within the target. In the case of Great Yarmouth, instead of reducing the rate by 2p in the pound it would have been better off to have left the rate as it was originally, and used the interest gained from the higher balances to keep its net expenditure down so as to meet the new target this year. It must be recognised that establishing GREAs, and setting targets well below them in many local authorities, and the reverse with others, is a rough and ready form of justice. My right hon. Friend the Member for Cambridgeshire, South-East (Mr. Pym) has drawn attention to the raw deal for East Anglia, pointing out that compared with the national position of other local authorities, the East Anglian authorities have been set targets for 1984–85 that are 4·6 per cent. less than the GREAs. With regard to my county, the Eastern Daily Press recently commented that Norfolk has played the game with the Government every year and has lost every year. However, it is one of the few local authorities in the Association of County Councils that supports the Government's rate-capping proposals, in respect to the selective powers. I have given my support to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State on that. To be able to support with conviction the general powers for which the Government have asked I need to see more evidence that the Department of the Environment, when arriving at rate support grant settlements such as we are discussing today, shows a better understanding of the needs of local authorities where the GREA is well above target, and spending up to the GREA brings a heavy and unacceptable penalty. I noted my right hon. Friend's assurances, when he opened the debate, that he will be taking greater account of the record of those authorities that cannot be described by any stretch of the imagination as high spenders, to use my right hon. Friend's words, when drawing up targets for next year. I understand the problems to which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State is addressing himself. These problems arise from the past few years of gross overspending by a handful of large councils. With respect to the hon. Member for Liverpool, West Derby (Mr. Wareing), when one hears arguments such as those propounded from the Opposition Benches, one is driven more and more into the Lobby with my right hon. Friend. This consistent overspending has been to the detriment not only of the interests of local government generally but to the achievement of the economic objectives set for the nation as a whole. Because of that and the need to control that problem, I shall have no hesitation in joining my right hon. Friend in the Lobby. However, I point out that if he is not able to find a more equitable approach to consistent low-spending authorities such as Norfolk during the coming year I may not be in the Lobby with him in 12 months time.
