gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in this important debate. I begin by adding my congratulations to my hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Patten) on his excellent maiden speech. I am glad to have postponed my maiden speech until now as it has given me the opportunity to make many new friends on both sides of the House and to appreciate that probably 90 per cent. of us in this place agree on 90 per cent. of what we are trying to do. There is much common ground and great willingness to be kind and helpful to new Members like myself that we all greatly appreciate. This evening is a far cry from my first day in the House when we assembled, with the dust of the hustings in the air, to re-elect Mr. Speaker to preside over us with his Welsh wizardry and humour. On that first day I looked at the members of the Opposition who were uncomfortably seated, wearing red ties, glum expressions and revolutionary looks. I was shocked to realise that part of what I said about them in the election was probably true. However, I realise that to achieve anything in this place it is important to see the other side's point of view. I travelled by a tortuous route to the opposite Gallery and viewed the Government side of the House. What I saw was rather worse—row upon row of navy blue suits. I am glad to say that we have now all regained something of our original individuality. It is hardly surprising that on that first day, when the Chaplain arrived to take his place before the Chair, he first looked   at the assembled Members and then prayed for the nation. It is for the good of the nation that we debate this evening. Although this is a debate on regional industrial policy, it is more than anything a debate about people. Regional policy is a carrot-and-stick business. I applaud the way in which the Government concentrated the carrots in those areas of the kingdom in most need and, at the same time, reduced the stick with which they can deny industrial investors, by means of industrial development certificates, the freedom to go elsewhere. The second part of the policy will cause the flags to be hung out on 6 August in the great and historic city of Bristol, whose electors have sent my hon. Friend the Member for Bristol, West (Mr. Waldegrave) and myself to join the three other distinguished right hon. and hon. Gentlemen who also represent Bristol constituencies. I am about as different from my predecessor, Mr. Ron Thomas, as he was from Martin McLaren, who preceded him, but one thing upon which we are all agreed is the dictum of an earlier Member of Bristol, Edmund Burke, who said that he wanted to be a Member of Parliament, to have his share in doing good and resisting evil. Ron Thomas's methods may have been a little different from my own, but I believe that his heart was absolutely in the right place. He certainly did his best to continue the unparalleled standard of constituency service of his predecessor, Martin McLaren, for whom the people of Bristol, North-West have a lasting devotion and affection, quite irrespective of the way in which they usually voted. I am sure that all Members of this House, Mr. Deputy Speaker, will join me in wishing Martin McLaren a very speedy recovery from the most serious illness which now besets him. For many years the city of Bristol has enjoyed a balanced economy, but over the last decade there has been a growth in the proportion of commercial and service jobs, at the expense of manufacturing. Unemployment, having been traditionally about half the national level in Bristol, has grown to around the national average. I believe that this is due in part to the need to clear the IDC hurdle, with its 15,000  sq. ft. exemption limit. That limit is now to be raised to 50,000 sq. ft., which will enable the wealth-creating industries, which the country needs so desperately, to come to our area if they so wish. Bristol is typical of many other cities in the land which can act as pump primers for our economic recovery—provided that the Government will first create the climate of confidence in which investors are encouraged to take the risks involved in all new business. It is worth recalling that still by far the greatest proportion of new investment in industry is found from retained profits. If there are no profits, there is no new investment and therefore there are no new jobs. I believe that the nation's ability to finance support for those remaining assisted areas in our country will depend largely on the wealth that we generate elsewhere. In the past, by restricting new development in the non-assisted areas, we have been cutting off our noses to spite our faces. Bristol is a city which enjoys great advantages of position, communications, environment and attitude to work. We have an excellent industrial relations record, a highly skilled work force, and a tradition of technical and technological advance and free enterprise, all now waiting for the green light which is soon to come. The leading industries in my constituency of Bristol, North-West are aerospace and agricultural manufacturing, which, together with the Avonmouth docks and the chemical companies in Avonmouth, employ nearly 20,000 people. Nearby, at Filton, we have the most comprehensive aerospace complex in the world, with facilities for research, development and manufacture of aircraft, rockets, missiles and engines, together with the flight testing facilities which came to us not long ago from Fairford nearby. The measures proposed by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry, though very welcome in our city, are probably not so welcome—at any rate initially—in the Principality across the water from us, or in some of the other assisted areas which may be demoted by my right hon. Friend's plans for, quite rightly, concentrating the help where it can do most good. It is the nature of this help that I should like to question this evening. It is based on   regional development grants of various percentages on capital expenditure incurred for the provision of new plant and machinery, buildings and works. I question whether capital expenditure should be the only basis for grant aid. An objective of my right hon. Friend's regional selective assistance policy is To provide more productive and more secure jobs"". In the long term, I am absolutely certain that this is what will happen. But perhaps my right hon. Friend could, in his ongoing reviews of the Government's regional industrial policy, look once more at the concept of employment grants. We are giving aid in order to provide work in the assisted areas, but today, as industry enters a second industrial revolution, no less dramatic than the first, investment will be in plant and machinery that is largely automated rather than in people. Yet it is workpeople whom the aid is intended to help. There are still many labour-intensive industries in existence. Surely they are the companies which could be encouraged to go to the assisted areas. Many are already there, and there are many small businesses which could start up and expand if grants were based more on the number of people they were to employ rather than on the amount of capital invested. My right hon. Friend might like to consider, as an alternative to capital grants tied to the investment in plant, machinery and buildings, that grants might be based on the average number of people employed, in order to encourage labour-intensive industries. We have in the past tried the selective employment tax refunds and the premiums. These were followed by the regional employment premium, which was scrapped by the Labour Government in 1977. Both were payroll subsidies, but in some cases I know that there were industrialists who used the cash to subsidise plant investment. But this often, in turn, reduced the number of jobs that were to be made available. It cannot be beyond the capabilities of the Department of Industry to devise a formula which would enable more help to go to labour-intensive industries than to those that were largely automated. Such a policy would, I submit, first help to win the co-operation of the trade union movement, without which it will be very difficult to achieve the removal of restrictive practices, and the mobility between trades that is required to increase productivity. Second, it would help to avoid the skills shortage that is so often experienced by capital-intensive industries which go to the assisted areas, when such industries would be better located, dare I say it, in cities such as Bristol, where technology already flourishes and skilled labour is perhaps more readily available. The structural change in employment to which I have referred will gather momentum. Modern industry will continue to replace workers with machines wherever possible, in factories and in offices. This decline in jobs comes at a time when the number of people who want to work, especially women, is steadily rising. The problem of unemployment among the under-25s, particularly school leavers, is acute. No number of job creation schemes, work experience programmes or community projects can satisfactorily replace work by which a young person can earn a living. That is what young people want to do when they leave school—to earn money, to be independent, and not to be in receipt of State handouts. I thank the House for the patient way in which it has listened to me this evening. This time last year, I was in a shipyard on Merseyside and I saw chalked on the wall the words ""Cheer up, things could be worse."" I did cheer up, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and things got very much worse. After a winter of discontent, we now have a new Government and a nation that has the opportunity for a new beginning. There is hope where previously there was gloom. There is a world recession and a shortage of energy. But we have an abundance of the finest resource of all—a patriotic and determined workpeople, waiting for resolute leadership and the opportunity to put their talents to work for the benefit of themselves, their families and the nation. That is why I believe that any regional policy, if it is to succeed, must be designed to release those talents. Nothing less will do.
