gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address this House for the first time. I am pleased to be doing so on the occasion of the first demonstration by the Labour Government that it is to translate into action one of our election pledges, namely, to improve the lot of those of our people who need help most. After listening to the hon. Lady the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) I am reminded of the story of a man who had died. His relatives were gathered round the coffin while the vicar was speaking in his praise. The man was made out to be the finest husband there had ever been, but he had been just the opposite. His wife nudged her son and said to him, ""Look at the name on the coffin"". Just as I am convinced that it was right to bury that man, I am convinced that we were right to bury the  last Government, and it will be a long time before they are—forgive the pun—exhumed. The constituency I have the honour and great privilege to represent is not among the most beautiful, although some parts of it are as beautiful as most parts of other constituencies. Like all Lancashire constituencies, the people in it are most warmhearted, understanding and, as we say in Lancashire, outspoken. My constituency comprises seven urban districts—Abram, Ashton-in-Makerfield, Ince-in-Makerfield, Orrell, Billinge-with-Winstanley, Skelmersdale, and Up Holland. I read the maiden speech of an hon. Friend a few days ago. He said that in his constituency there were several urban districts all of which claimed priority as the most important. He very wisely said that he accorded that claim to each of them, and I do the same for each of my seven urban districts. Ince is mentioned in the Domesday Book, and Skelmersdale is being developed as a new town. So we have a link with the past and we also look to the future. We still have the traditional industries of the North—coal, cotton, light engineering, railway waggon workshops and sheds, although they have declined considerably, and we now have the largest food factory in Europe. My constituency bears witness to the ravages of private enterprise. There are many acres of derelict land in it. Good work has been done by the local authorities to improve and reclaim that land. I am certain that they will do much better under a Labour Government. I believe there are certain traditions in this honourable House and one is that a maiden speaker is allowed to be mildly controversial, but he must not wade too deeply into the waters of controversy. I was in the Strangers' Gallery the other day when one of my hon. Friends made what I thought was a good rip-roaring speech. I have not eloquence to match his, but I hope that the House will forgive me if I wade in more than I should. I wish to introduce a little humour. I believe it is the tradition of the House to start proceedings each day with prayers. That is a very ancient and honourable institution, and, I think, a very necessary one. I knew of this tradition before I came to the House, but I was surprised when   I found that instead of facing one another hon. Members turned to the backs of the benches during prayers. I asked one of my hon. Friends about this, because I had not known that it occurred, and he replied: ""There is an official reason, but the real reason is that Members know, when they pray, that God is more likely to be found on the back benches"". Incidentally, my hon. Friend is not a Front-Bencher. This was the most comforting piece of news I had received since I entered the House, and I like to think that, among the prayers offered, there is one directed particularly towards the giving of strength to maiden speakers. The man I succeeded had been Member of Parliament for Ince for 22 years, Mr. Tom Brown. I know that he was loved and respected by his constituents, and I am sure that he enjoyed great respect on both sides of the House. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I believe that Tom did much to brighten the House. Hon. Members will recall that one of his delights was to demonstrate his skill in gardening and to bring to the House flowers from his greenhouse, and I believe that another of his intentions, in which he succeeded many times, was to make many right hon. and hon. Lady Members more beautiful by his gifts of flowers. Tom Brown was known throughout his long political life as the champion of old-age pensioners. I do not mean to imply that he was their only champion, but he certainly was one of the most eloquent. Apart from their general interest in affairs, hon. and right hon. Members have special interests, and Tom Brown's special interest was in old-age pensioners. He would have been delighted to be here today to take part in this debate and speak on their behalf. In recognising the plight of old-age pensioners, the sick, the disabled and the widows, in a time of serious financial difficulty, the Government are vindicating the ideals which have always inspired our party. It is particularly noteworthy at this time, when my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, having gone to the cupboard, has found it not only bare but burdened with a few debts as well, that this increase, the biggest for 13 years, is to be given. I contrast it with the increases made during the past  13 years, the years when, so we were assured, we had ""never had it so good"". People can see the true value of what this Government are doing, not only in increasing the pension but in abolishing prescription charges and the earnings rule for widows' pensions. I am sure that our people will realise that we have kept faith with them. It can be argued that we have not done enough and that there is a delay in paying the increase. We know that much still remains to be done. But, after all the talk of comparisons between what we did from 1945 to 1951 and what the Tories did from 1951 to 1964, and after all the bandying about of statistics, the brutal fact remains that still, even with the new pension, a lot of our old people will have to suffer a very poor standard of living. Even with the increase, whenever it comes, many of them will not have enough to live decently. In my constituency there are about 6,800 old-age pensioners who will be delighted with what the Government are doing. As I go about the constituency, many of them tell me that, after they have paid the rent, paid for coal, food and other necessities, they have a miserable existence. All the talk about average rates, and Conservative boasting that, on the basis of statistics, the pension under their Government was proportionately greater than it will be under this Government, ignores the fact that averages are meaningless unless we apply our minds to what the pension really is and what it will bring in purchasing power. I am reminded of the story of the man who went to a Colonial Territory to measure the natives there. He found that half of them were 6 ft. tall and the other half were 5 ft. tall, so he sent back a report that the average height was 5 ft. 6 in., and suits of clothes were sent out for people of 5 ft. 6 in. which fitted none of them. That is the value of averages unless they are related to reality. The real solution to the problem of pensions lies in the Labour Party's plan for at least half-pay on retirement, and this can only serve to bring about a big improvement on the present apology for a pension scheme. As an ordinary working man before entering the House, I have always asked why we should have divisions and distinctions in our society. Why should some people, not because   they displayed any great initiative, be able on retirement to enjoy a good pension while the other half, or more than half, have to exist on a pittance? I hope sincerely that this Government, given the time—I see no reason why we should not get the time—will be able to introduce the half-pay on retirement scheme, making a real step forward in social welfare. Remembering that it was the Labour Party which removed the threat of sickness from our people and introduced, as its crowning achievement, the National Health Service and social security schemes, we all look forward to a final and just solution of the pension problem. Although these increases are most desirable, I hope that my right hon. Friend will bear in mind some of the difficulties experienced by people who are still not brought any comfort or succour by the new increases. I should like serious consideration to be given to reassessing the distinction which now exists between those disabled through war service and those disabled through industrial service. I am thinking particularly of the provision of invalid cars and the clothing allowance which a person with artificial limbs, as the result of industrial accident, has as compared with the allowance received by someone with artificial limbs as a result of war service. I am thinking also of the constant attendance allowance. The hon. Lady the Member for Finchley said that the Tories were thinking about this. I look forward to the Labour Government doing something about it as soon as they can. In all the talk which we so often hear about the difference between what we did from 1945 and 1951 and what the Tories did from 1951 to 1964, it is forgotten that the Labour Government of those days were running the country just after it had been, for the first time, to some extent devastated and war had been brought home to these islands. There was the Korean War, too, when we were again involved in defending freedom at the same time as we were trying to rebuild Britain. I contrast what we did in our six short years with what the Conservatives did in their 13 years when we ""never had it so good"". That is the proper perspective in which to consider all these things. I thank the House for the fair and quiet hearing which I have been given on this the occasion of my maiden speech.
