gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am obliged to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me early in this debate, which is of great interest to me and was also of great interest to my predecessor who made his maiden speech in this House in 1945 on a similar topic, when he called for a positive approach towards health in the Health Service. My predecessor, Will Wilkins, as he was known to many hon. Members, served Bristol, South for 25 years and in that time built up a reputation for service and devotion to his constituents which was second to none. He was held in high esteem by everybody throughout Bristol for his services to his own people and to the city as a whole. Mine is an industrial constituency. We have a number of industries—printing, paper, tobacco and engineering—and many of my constituents work in the aircraft and aero-engine works and in the docks. Some of our problems are due to the close positioning of industry and residential areas. In fact, I was trying to deal with one of these problems yesterday. I am very pleased to make my maiden speech on this issue which is so non-controversial and which has such wide support. In Bristol we have a very good reputation for progressive thinking in both education and mental health. Indeed, the first institute which was certified under the Mental Deficiency Act, 1913, was in Bristol, and hon. Members will recall that it was the 1913 Act which first separated higher and low grade subnormals. This separation has persisted, and it is this separation which we are trying to remedy with this Bill. The early education psychologists felt that it was possible to do a once-and-for-all accurate measurement of intelligence quotients and from this to make a prognosis of future developments. We know that later work has shown that this is   not so, and that such a diagnosis and prognosis can not only be wrong but can also be a positive hindrance to future development because any label of this nature tends to be self-perpetuating and to encourage the sort of behaviour which has been labelled. In my constituency we have the Bush Training Centre with modern buildings and a fine staff. It was opened in 1968 and it caters for children and adults throughout Bristol. But this is a training centre, and hon. Members will know that transfer between special schools and training centres has been difficult because parents have felt that the training centre is virtually the end of the road, that the children are passing out of the education system, and they have resisted this. Just as in the tripartite system, transfer was supposed to be easy between secondary modern, secondary grammar and secondary technical, in theory it was easy but in practice it was difficult. The label of ""training"" stultifies the real concept of education which is to take the spark of talent and try to develop it to the full potential. I ask the Government to think particularly of children in subnormality hospitals because these are the most deprived of all and they need a carefully planned series of stimulus experiences to help them develop. This is at the level of just realising that potatoes come out of the ground, that eggs are found in shells, and so on. I worked in a special school for a short time and some of the hardest work that I had to do in my life was to teach a boy of 15 that 46s. was the same as £2 6s. Yet the same boy I overheard talking to a friend on a nature walk, and what he knew about flowers, plants and the countryside in general would not have disgraced hon. Members here. But he had been labelled a failure and he had been set back. What we really need is not to think of a subject syllabus as such but of social training and adjustment, social competence, how to use the telephone, how to catch the correct bus, and so on. This Bill gives hope and it is a legislative break-through. In this House last week the hon. Member for Easington (Mr. Dormand) mentioned the need for the teacher training inquiry to go into the reappraisal and integration of the  training of mentally handicapped teachers. I reiterate that, but it is a long-term project, so I ask the Under-Secretary whether he has considered the short-term question of the courses being established in the colleges of education. The hon. Gentleman may well feel that the situation is under control, but the people on the ground are concerned about certain aspects of it. The student ceilings of the colleges have been set by the Department of Education and Science, and the staff ratio is related to existing requirements and forecasts. Because of the special needs of handicapped children, students are expected to have had previous experience in this field, and they form an identifiable group within the college who need major special provision. Virtually none of the existing colleges of education staff have the necessary experience to do this work, and, as the courses conducted by the National Association for the Mentally Handicapped are run down, there will be grave danger, I fear, of dispersing the teams of expert staff who have been assembled for this work. How are the colleges to engage the staff without damaging their existing requirements? If they cannot engage the staff, there will be grave danger that not only will the children and the students suffer but the colleges themselves will suffer from losing the enriching experience which can be given by such staff through their special experience of teaching methods and their knowledge of understanding and learning. We now recognise the paramount importance of early learning in childhood. This is particularly so for the young handicapped. There is urgent need for more pre-school age provision for handicapped children, especially day nurseries and nursery schools or classes prepared to take a proportion of handicapped children. There is need to co-ordinate the pre-school detection of handicap. We know now also that certain children are at risk of developing a handicap: they can be identified, and there should be much greater co-ordination of services to support them and their families. I ask the Minister to consider instituting a drive in the existing secondary schools among all children in this age   range, first, to try to explain the problems of handicapped children to them—for children can be very cruel about these things if they do not understand—and second, to explain about handicap itself, because there is a limited field in which the prevention of onset of handicap is possible. By genetic counselling, since these children will eventually become parents, by chromosome tests, and by stressing the need for care during pregnancy, labour and afterwards, a certain amount of handicap can be avoided. The statement in the Explanatory and Financial Memorandum that in practice there will be no significant additional charge upon the Exchequer is probably true in the short term, but in the long term, as the stigma associated with handicap disappears from our society, the overt incidence of handicap will grow. At present, the incidence equals the provision. Hon. Members probably know that in the four years ending 1966 local authorities provided 6,670 new places for severely subnormal children, but the waiting lists fell by only about 190. Costs are bound to increase because, as needs are satisfied, new needs are created. I ask the Government, therefore, to follow this thinking through. As the child eventually becomes the adult, we have to think about the next stage. In South Bristol we have the Industrial Therapy Organisation, which was mentioned in this House for its work for psychiatric and mentally handicapped patients by my predecessor in an Adjournment debate on 2nd August, 1961. It does wonderful work. Last year, Her Royal Highness Princess Anne opened new premises there, and over 200 men and women were in gainful employment. From all over the world, 208 visitors have come to see the work being done. The organisation now has a housing association going as well. But the organisation is handicapped by the label attached to its work. Hon. Members will know that someone who is unfit for work cannot earn more than £1 19s. 11d. without his benefits being renegotiated and reassessed. In physical illness, this clear-cut division between unfit and fit is all right, but in mental problems there is a fringe zone, in which a person may improve or may fall back  a bit, and so on, in respect of which this condition is quite unsuitable. This is really making the organisation's work hard, because we have a situation where legislation makes it better financially for people not to work than to work. I would ask the Government to look at this, particularly in this context. Finally, let me say that it is with very great pleasure that I reiterate the remark made by the Under-Secretary of State that this is a subject on which we are united, in looking after the interests of those who form no pressure groups and cannot speak for themselves.
