gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In replying to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Daventry (Mr. Manningham-Buller), I find myself in a somewhat unusual position. It is unusual for a junior Minister, in the third Session of a Parliament, to ask for the indulgence of hon. Members on the grounds that it is the first time he has had the honour of addressing the House, either as a House or in Committee. It is true that I have on occasions suggested ""That this House do now adjourn,"" and that I have made other brief remarks. I can only hope that what I have to say on this occasion will result in as rapid agreement as have the few remarks I have made at other times. The question at issue on this Amendment is whether this regulation should continue in force until the end of 1948, or until December, 1950. It is a regulation which gives force to any orders enabling the Government to use land for the purpose of military training. I do not think it will be the wish of the Members in any part of the Committee to cause a serious hiatus in military training. We have, however, to consider whether this hiatus could possibly be avoided if this regulation were to come to an end as early as December, 1948. It is the intention of the War Office, with the other Service Departments, permanently to acquire such land as may be necessary for the purpose of military training as soon as possible. Once that is done the exceptional powers wielded under the regulation would no longer be required. The question naturally arises as to how long it will be before the permanent acquisition of such land as is needed for military training can replace the emergency powers springing from this regulation. Before such permanent acquisition could occur, there would first have to be the issue of the White Paper on Service Land Requirements which has very frequently been referred to in this House. Members will recall that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Defence referred to this matter at Question time yesterday, and expressed the hope that this White Paper would be issued with a short period.   Its issue has inevitably been delayed by the recent reconsideration of the size of the Armed Forces. That was an inevitable delay. When it is clear what lands are required it is important that the War Office should not proceed in an arbitrary manner to acquire land without careful consideration of the needs of local authorities, private interested parties, other Government Departments and the Ministry of Town and Country Planning. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that a year would be long enough for His Majesty's Government to determine the matter. If it were simply a question of arbitrary determination a year might be sufficient, but before the permanent acquisition occurs it is our practice to consult with the local authorities, and other interested parties, and put the proposals before any Department of the Government that may be interested. My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, in a speech in February of this year, said that before there was any major acquisition a public inquiry would be held. It is because we are so anxious not to proceed in this matter in an arbitrary way, but with careful consultation, that we can reasonably claim that it is bound to be longer than a year before we can completely replace the exceptional powers for using land by a permanent acquisition of such land as is required for military training. It is not the intention to make use of the powers contained in this regulation by acquiring any further land beyond what is already held under orders arising from it. At present that is a total, if we consider the three Service Departments—and a small quantity under the control of the Ministry of Supply—of some 670,000 acres. It is not the intention to add to that figure, but we are convinced that if we proceed in a reasonable manner, and have regard to all the interests involved, the process of permanent acquisition is bound to be slow. If this regulation were to lapse at the end of 1948, it would lapse before we had been able to replace it by the permanent acquisition of the necessary land. There would, therefore, be the serious risk of a dangerous hiatus in the military training of the Forces. It is for those reasons I ask for the rejection of this Amendment.
