gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make my maiden speech I ask the indulgence of the House for any apparent nervousness which I feel I am bound to show. This is a somewhat daunting experience. Before coming to the content of what I want to say, I would like to pay a tribute to the late Mr. Will Robinson, the former Member for Walthamstow, East. I know he was a much respected Member of this House, and I assure hon. Members that he was also much respected in East Walthamstow, where he had a great many friends. I listened to the Chancellor's Budget statement last Tuesday and I heard with particular pleasure his reference to the rises in old-age pensions which are due to take place in November. One of my keenest memories of the by-election is of the plight of old people. A high proportion of old people live in my constituency, and many of those whom I saw were living in extreme poverty. Single people living on a total income of £5 Us. 0d. a week, this being £4 10s. 0d. old-age pension and £1 1s. 0d. supplementary benefit, are finding life a tremendous struggle. A married couple living on £8 10s. 0d. a week are hardly better off. It is necessary to spend these sums carefully and they require the most careful budgeting. When such people are asked how they spend that money, they invariably say that the two major items with which they are faced are the cost of food and the cost of fuel. Their weekly diet seems to consist mainly of tins of soup, baked beans and eggs and chips. Meat is a luxury kept solely for the weekend. This is an unhappy state of affairs. It is harmful to their health and it can give none of us satisfaction. Luxuries are unknown. The pleasure of going out has long since been forgotten. New clothes are not bought. They are the gifts of friends and relatives. In short, these people are living on the edge of extreme poverty. I know that there are many excellent welfare organisations which do their best to help old-age pensioners. The meals-on-wheels service is known to all of us. But it is not enough for us to sit by and let voluntary welfare organisations seek to do the task of the Government,  namely, to provide the wherewithal for people to enjoy a decent living standard. The Government take pride in the 20 per cent. rise in pensions which they have made since 1964. But the warmth of that statistic has long since cooled in the chilly blasts of the rapidly rising cost of living. Today pensioners are worse off, not better off, than they were in 1964. I therefore hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or whichever Treasury Minister winds up the debate on Monday night, will give an assurance to the 3 million old-age pensioners who draw supplementary benefit that the rise in their pension next November will not mean, as has happened in the past, a reduction in the rate of supplementary benefit. If that were to happen, it would make a mockery of the pension rises. I would like to point out to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the Purchase Tax imposition on pet foods, which may seem almost frivolous to those of us who can afford these things, will be a heavy burden on old-age pensioners. Many of these people who live alone look upon their pet as their best friend, and this extra charge will adversely affect their budget. They still have six months to live through before they get the pension increase during which the cost of living is bound to rise. I must also touch on another point of the Budget which I believe will hurt old people—Selective Employment Tax. I know that if a person over 65 years of age is taken on by an employer, the employer gets a two-thirds refund on the Selective Employment Tax paid. But the rise in Selective Employment Tax proposed in the Budget means that it will now cost an employer 16s. a week to take on somebody over the age of 65. It is unquestionable that before taking on old people many employers wonder whether they can do the job that a rather younger person could do. Therefore, this 16s. may be an obstacle. I hope that the Government will consider the possibility of alleviating this to some extent or perhaps abolishing Selective Employment Tax as it affects the employment of people over 65. I have raised these points about old people, pensions and Selective Employment Tax because, as I have said, the plight of old age pensioners demands our absolute sympathy. I very much hope   that on Monday I shall hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer or a Treasury Minister give me the assurance for which I have asked.
