gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with some trepidation to make my maiden speech, and I hope that the House will offer its usual indulgence to me on that account. First, I offer my sincere congratulations to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the clarity and lucidity with which he introduced the Bill—in marked contradistinction to similar if more comprehensive legislation, quite unintelligible and incomprehensible, placed before the House in the last Parliament. I represent the Bury and Radcliffe Division. I am conscious, as I speak this morning, of the very distinguished predecessors who have represented that division. The late Sir Walter Fletcher will be known and remembered with affection by a number of colleagues on both sides of the House, as will his successor, Mr. John Bidgood, who served as its representative until 1964. It is true that there was a period of mental aberration on the part of the electorate when the representation was loaned to an hon. Member from the Labour Party who, I understand, was lately in charge of the catering arrangements of the House. I can only hope that in trying to match his contribution I shall not give the House mental indigestion—not being in a position to give it physical indigestion, which was in the capacity of my predecessor. Bury is a Saxon word meaning ""stronghold"", and hon. Members will forgive me if I say that I am determined to make Bury a stronghold in terms of my representation. My division covers three different types of township. Bury is a county borough, Radcliffe is a non-county borough, and Tottington is an urban district council. They are long-established and represent a good cross-section of the type of local authorities with which we shall have to deal. Bury  is associated with the name of the Stanley family. The Earls of Derby have been lords of the manor ever since 1485. Bury is surrounded by beautiful countryside, yet it has been described as the town of 100 industries, perhaps the oldest being the paper-making industry. One paper-making firm has existed for over 300 years. Bury's industries include paper-making, engineering, clothing, motor engineering, and footwear. The widest spectrum of industry is covered. Many famous sons have come from my constituency, including John Kay, the inventor of the fly shuttle, his son, Robert Kay, inventor of the drop box, and Dr. James Wood, master of St. John's Cambridge, and subsequently Bishop of Ely. Dare I mention, too, the name of Sir Robert Peel, who became Prime Minister of this great country? That was the first time that a representative of Bury became a Member of Parliament and subsequently Prime Minister, and it is not for me to prognosticate what the future may hold for my division. There was also Lord Hewart of Bury, who rose to the rank of Lord Chief Justice. We are proud of the sons of Bury, and we are equally proud of Radcliffe, an ancient town which was first recorded in A.D. 79 as being on the Roman Road from Mancunium to Ribchester. The town of Radcliffe, which was founded by the Saxons, has a great history, and a wool-weaving tradition dating back to the 12th century. It is now the centre of a great deal of industrial activity. The third of my little trio is Tottington—a beautiful town which is little more than a village but is a pleasure to live in. In recent years it has seen a great deal of residential development through private enterprise. It is now faced with the threat of overspill development, from which I hope to defend it in order to maintain its present congenial atmosphere unsullied. It is this cross-section that has honoured me with its representation in the House. I think I know what the people want. That is why I welcomed the Gracious Speech, with its indication that electoral promises are to be translated into post-election performance. I shall not pursue the many points that were made in the Gracious Speech and   which have been covered in debates earlier this week, but education is a matter that has caused great concern in my constituency, Bury being a township that refused to submit a comprehensive scheme to the education ministry. Bury and Radcliffe and the rest of my division are proud of their grammar schools, which are first-class and which have long histories of scholarly successes. The Bury Grammar School for Boys was founded over three centuries ago. These grammar schools have long histories of service, and their traditions must be maintained and not destroyed. We are equally proud of our secondary modern schools, which have improved, and are improving. In our view, a dual system gives an opportunity to every child to make the best of his natural aptitude and ability—
