gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first time that I have had an opportunity of speaking to the House, perhaps the first thing that I ought to say is how proud I am to be here following my predecessor, Mr. Austen Hudson, who represented Hull, North for nine years. Although over the last two years he was not able to be here very often because of ill health, his work for his constituents continued just the same as before, and I have very good reasons to be pleased with the legacy of good will that he left behind. The immortal Jorrocks once said that none but a huntsman knows a huntsman's cares. I am sure that my right hon. Friend must, as he sits listening to the debate, turn over that sort of sentiment in his mind when he thinks of the cares of the President of the Board of Trade. I think that any fair-minded person must realise that, however the list of development districts was compiled, someone was forced to be disappointed, and now my right hon. Friend is attacked not only from in front but from behind about the names included in the list of development districts. However, one thing which is clear is that the very worst thing that my right hon. Friend could have done was to cast the net too wide, to include too many districts, for this would have resulted in merely the continuance of the status quo. Indeed, there would have been no compelling incentive to any industry to go to any particular place, and, therefore, the whole purpose of the Bill would have been voided. I feel that the very shortness of the list is largely its merit, because that is the greatest guarantee that the provisions will be effective. It is, in fact, a   guarantee that the list will remain fluid, that the names of certain districts will be put on it and that the names of other districts will come off it. If the list was not short, that would not be possible. That is the very great thing about it. Therefore, while I agree in principle with the list set out in OFFICIAL REPORT, I beg at the same time to differ in detail about it because I and my constituents are disappointed at the exclusion of Hull and Humberside. It is a very bitter pill to us. Whereas we were a district scheduled under D.A.T.A.C., we are now no longer a development district. In asking the Government to reconsider their decision to exclude Hull and Humberside from the list, I would urge two things upon them. I would urge consideration not merely of percentages but of numbers actually employed. As I look through the list I see that of the 42 districts scheduled only 6 have a higher number of unemployed than Hull, and the average of the remaining 36 districts is only half that of Hull. This sort of thing should be borne in mind because it makes very disturbing reading for my constituents. Surely the actual number of jobs found is the best criterion of the success of the scheme. I say this with the greatest respect to the areas concerned and with only the very slightest hint of jealousy or malice, but surely it is very much better to provide a large number of jobs than, say, 60 in Haltwhistle or 200 in Southwold. Another point stems from this. If one looks at the list of unemployment figures for the last eight years, there are only two conclusions that one can draw. The first is that during that period unemployment has been less than it was when hon. Gentlemen opposite were in office; and the second is that we have a hard core of unemployment. That is just the sort of thing that I thought the Bill was designed to remedy. The second point that I want to mention is collateral action to solve unemployment problems. I want to be sure that my right hon. Friend and his colleague are not acting entirely on their own in this matter. Are they liaising with other Ministries? We cannot regard special unemployment in a district as something in a watertight compartment. We must look at the collateral  surrounding circumstances that are the cause of that unemployment. Most hon. Members will agree, although this fact is lost sight of these days, that self-help is the best form of help, but it has its limitations. My local development committee has worked hard during the past two years to attract industry to Hull. It has met with success, but not with as much success as it would have liked. If industry is to be attracted to areas like mine, the area itself can hold out inducements and attractions to attract industry, but the Minister can, in addition, hold out his inducements and thus go a long way to attracting industries which in turn will attract more industries into the area. For example, quite a lot of the unemployment in my constituency is due to the decline in shipbuilding and ship repairing. Government Departments have helped with this problem before, and that is the type of collateral action that I have in mind. Another important consideration is the question of road communications. I know that this is not the direct responsibility of my right hon. Friend, but to us road communications are one of the most important matters. If there was a better system of road communications between the West Riding and the industrial Midlands and the third port in the country, we should be in a better position to solve our problems, even without Government action, although Government aid would be welcome. I want my right hon. Friend to assure the House that there is this co-operation between his Ministry and other Ministries. I trust that he will give urgent consideration to the inclusion of Hull and Humberside in any future list that he issues. I thank the House for its indulgence.
