gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The trembling in my frame at the moment is, I am sure, remembered by many hon. Members and their  predecessors from the first occasion on which they rose to address the House. Surprisingly, the knowledge of that fact does not seem to alter the feeling in any way. It has been my fortune to inherit a constituency which was ably represented in the previous Parliament by two present and one former hon. Members who served with great distinction for many years. Before I pay tribute to their efforts on behalf of my constituents, I want to go back a little further in time and put on record my gratitude to a former Member for Bristol, North-West whose standards of honesty and dedication to the service of his constituents still stand as a beacon to all who succeed him. I refer to the late Martin McLaren, whose memory is still honoured with respect and affection by all those whom he once represented. I am grateful for the energy and far-sightedness on behalf of my constituents which has been shown by my hon. Friends the Members for Romsey and Waterside (Mr. Colvin), and for Northavon (Mr. Cope), and by the former hon. Member for Bristol, North-East, Mr. Arthur Palmer. Their work over many years has made my path a great deal easier. My forebears fled across Europe to escape from a series of persecutions and settled in Britain. Their sights were always set westward towards peace, security and the ability to live their lives in the way that they wished. Therefore, it is peculiarly fitting that I should come to the House to represent a part of the city of Bristol which has always looked westward for its trade and prosperity. Five hundred years ago John Cabot set sail from Bristol with a crew largely consisting of Bristol mariners. They went forth with nothing but their faith and they returned with a continent. The city of Bristol has learnt from that time, that faith and that success. It is a city which has been built on commerce in all its forms and on the invention, industry and courage in new ventures of all its inhabitants, although I cannot help feeling that those qualities have sometimes been aided by the fact that they often speak a version of English which no one else can understand. Bristol is not just a city of trade and industry, despite the great traditions and the future prospects of its port, and despite the depth of its involvement in high technology on which rest the hope and employment of so many of its people. It is also a city of great beauty and friendliness. In so many parts of my constituency every corner brings a new vista of charm and character and a new group of people anxious to show off their pride in their city and the country of which it forms so distinguished a part. I regret that the Finance Bill continues an unfortunate trend which has gathered pace in recent years. Taxation law has become too voluminous and too unintelligible. I have a standard textbook on the law of taxation which sets out, without commentary, all the current statute law on income tax, corporation tax and capital gains tax. In 1978 the book contained 1,017 pages. The current edition contains 1,266 pages — an increase of nearly 25 per cent. in five years. The companion volume, which deals with capital transfer tax, development land tax, stamp duty and VAT, has increased by 84 pages, or 13 per cent., in the same period. Is it any wonder that the law of taxation has become so esoteric that its study and understanding are now limited to an ever-decreasing body of professionals and that the average business man has to think at least twice before   embarking on any new venture because of the high professional fees that he will have to pay to avoid the many pitfalls and snares that have been put in his way? Let no one think that the Government are alone in their record in complicating the tax system. In 1965, the then Labour Government turned the whole basis of taxation upside down and created such meaningless confusion that the system had to be changed again by 1971. The only effect of the change appears to have been that the legal and accountancy professions earned the unenviable reputation of containing the highest number of suicides and nervous breakdowns in any one year. The Bill, short as it is, contains, I regret to say, some of the same failings. Clause 4 contains 59 lines of new anti-avoidance legislation and clauses 5 and 6 and the first schedule contain 125 lines of necessary amendments to legislation that has been passed by the House within the past year. In other words, more than one third of the Bill provides either new traps for the unwary or should never have been necessary in the first place. We are promised a further dose of technical tax legislation in the spring. It is about time that we tried to stop this ever-onward march of greater complexity in tax legislation and instead looked for a way to simplify it. Britain once had a tax system which was the envy of the world in its clarity and overall justice. We have departed from those principles, always for good reasons, but I wonder whether we have gone too far. If we can start to move back towards a simpler tax system, we shall earn the gratitude of our constituents and we shall greatly increase respect for the House.
