gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like at the outset to crave the indulgence of the House on this the first occasion on which I address it. I come from my constituency of Brighouse and Spenborough, an industrious and hard-working part of the West Riding of Yorkshire and a constituency where the old-fashioned principles of neighbourliness, friendliness and an interest in local affairs still grow strongly. It is my one regret that the chain of circumstances which led to my being here this afternoon started by the tragic and sudden death of John Edwards. He was a man much beloved by everyone in our constituency, and it is a matter of regret that it was because of his death that I was eventually elected to this House. I came here on one pledge and on one pledge only. That pledge was to support the present Government, in the firm and sincere belief that they were the team that we needed to carry on the affairs of the country. I take this early opportunity of supporting this Bill. I believe it is a Bill that is necessary in the present circumstances  of the country and that it meets the needs with which we are faced. I have asked many people in my constituency what their views are on the Bill and, by and large, the reaction has been, ""Well, I do not see what else we could have done."" In other words, it has been considered as reasonable and necessary. In our district textiles are one of the predominating industries and one of the first industries to reflect depression and the lack of well-being in our economy. We fully realise how necessary it is that any adjustments made to our economy should be made gently and should be made early because, otherwise, the people who feel it most are those in our textile industries. Therefore, it is good that at this time the Finance Bill is moderate and is, in a sense, a standstill Measure striking a note of caution. I do not propose to talk at any great length on this occasion, and, I trust, not on any future occasion either. I will not, therefore, go through the Clauses in detail. However, I should like to refer to one part of the Bill. It is, perhaps, the only part which I feel that I have completely mastered as yet, a feeling, perhaps, which is shared by many other hon. Members on both sides of the House. It is Part III of the Bill which deals with penalties. I feel that it is high time that there was an alteration in the penalty provisions. For too long, in my opinion, the taxpayer and his professional advisers have been at a disadvantage in dealing with the Inland Revenue on back-duty cases, cases of omission, and such-like things. The irritating part about the negotiations has always been that even though the Inland Revenue people, as they nearly always are, have been most courteous, the more trivial and less culpable the case the more disproportionate has always been in the past the maximum penalty which the Inland Revenue has had at its disposal. Therefore, I hope that in future we—and I must disclose an interest in this matter as an accountant—shall sit round the table more in a feeling of equality one with the other, without the uncertainty of the awful weight of the maximum penalties that are never mentioned but that one knows are hanging around just outside. I am also pleased that these penalty provisions do nothing to disturb the settlement by agreement that is nearly always made in back-duty cases. The relationship and customs that have been built up over the years between the three parties—the Inland Revenue, the taxpayer's advisers and the taxpayer; and perhaps once it gets to that stage, that is the correct sequence in which to list them—have been for the good of the country as a whole, because they have worked. What we need in back-duty cases is a swift and complete inquiry, a satisfactory settlement, and a deterrent against the recurrence of the faults that have been disclosed. Nine times out of ten all those factors are dealt with in the best manner by agreement between the parties concerned. Nothing that I can see in the new penalty provisions goes against these customs that have been built up throughout the years. In short, the path of a Chancellor is like a pilgrim's progress. It lies straight and narrow up the hill of difficulty. Danger and destruction lie on either hand. This Bill cannot be considered on its own. It is one of a series—those that have gone before and those that lie ahead—but when we are able to see it in perspective I believe that it will have its true and proper place as a necessary Measure in the continuance of the country's pursuit of additional and higher prosperity in the years ahead.
