gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is difficult enough to make a maiden speech in any circumstances, but when I have to follow from this side my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Devizes (Squadron-Leader Hollis), I feel rather like saying to the House, ""Please assume the status quo, go on talking to one another, and let me get on with my speech."" The only confidence I have in addressing the House for the first time, comes from my feeling that the matter under discussion is in no way controversial. I maintain that the principles involved go beyond the realm of politics, let alone party politics. I maintain that these principles were accepted by our country even before our present political system was devised. I can see a very strong case for preventing clergymen from teaching their own particular denominational doctrine in schools. I feel that if this came into effect, it would only be slightly less dangerous than the introduction  by the State of party political doctrine for the young. If that happened we would say not that our liberties were endangered, but that for the most part they had disappeared. To judge or even to regard this Prayer in that light, is completely to misinterpret the function of the clergy in the teaching profession. The function of the clergy is primarily to increase the knowledge and the practice of the Christian ethics. That comes first and is above any particular denominational creed to which they may belong. All young men who enter Holy Orders do so because they have behind them a certain urge and belief that in that way they can best serve not only their own community, but the whole of mankind. Very often—and I think quite understandingly—a clergyman finds that in his ordinary routine life as a clergyman he has inadequate scope for his particular talents; in fact, he appreciates that the job is not exactly what he himself wants and he turns very often to the teaching profession not in any revocation of the principles to which he was originally dedicated, but rather to find wider fields in which to practise his calling. Furthermore, almost all of these what I would call displaced clergy are fully qualified, quite apart from anything else, to teach any of the curriculum in our schools. Take the case of history, a very important matter in our curriculum. It is a very generally accepted fact that anyone who claims to have had a general education must have acquired a background knowledge of history. If that particular subject is taught rather as a time table, with a series of facts and dates which are in no way correlated by human developments and human emotions, I believe that the study of history is of very little value. Under these conditions I believe it is little more than a mental exercise. Those of us who are possibly more philosophically inclined, may take the view that the whole of history is really the history of the struggle of good against evil. We may ask ourselves often which side is winning, but I maintain that, if we take that view, the clergy have peculiar qualifications for teaching the subject in relation to mankind—the struggle for liberty, justice and progress of one kind or another. So in my opinion Regulation 23B is depriving the teaching profession of a very considerable number of certified   teachers, and consequently depriving the children themselves of people particularly qualified to be in their midst to instruct them. There is another point with which hon. Members may not agree, but I believe it is a good thing for the clergy themselves to get down from their pulpit now and again and mix with the common folk. I put it this way. Surely, an intelligent discourse on history, which really comprises all the essential striving and aspirations and, possibly, failures, of mankind, is really of more use in teaching than, possibly, the rather dull sermons which we too often hear from the pulpit. Yet in supporting this Prayer, I feel it is also very important to point out that the clergy, as I think everyone will agree, are men of peculiarly high moral standing. I feel that, for young people to have as their teachers people who set themselves up as examples in this matter, is very essential. I think there is one new danger creeping into our educational system, and, indeed, possibly pervading the whole of our national life. The danger is that the more the State takes a hand in the matter of education—while it brings certain benefits—the more teaching tends to become too doctrinaire. The formula for teaching becomes altogether over-simplified, the curriculum becomes too confined, and the qualification for the teacher becomes too narrow. I maintain that the introduction of people who have the peculiar qualifications which a great many of the clergy possess would be a very large enrichment of the ordinary lay teaching in schools. I am in no way referring to denominational religious teaching. I think that, in the same way, undue importance is always given to the matter of examinations in the minds of those dealing with young people or even people seeking a job. I believe I am right in saying that the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the Opposition was peculiarly bad at examinations, and, surely, he is a very good example of the undue importance that can be attached to that matter. Hon. Members who may have studied educational matters in France, will appreciate that, there, the educational system is essentially rigid. As a matter of fact, the boys and girls in school work far harder than we do, but I think that any enlightened Frenchman would agree that our system is preferable  to theirs because it allows us more latitude in the curriculum, and it gives more attention to the development of character, and, if you like, to citizenship than the mere acquisition of knowledge, and, surely, the point of education is not to stuff people with a lot of facts but to bring out the best talents in those people. I think this is very relevant to the question of introducing clergy to teach lay matters in schools. I believe we won the war, for instance, not on our superior knowledge entirely, but on the character of our people and, together with that, an implicit belief that our own cause, closely associated with the Christian cause, was the right one. I believe that most people today, possibly sub-consciously, seek a practical faith. The Germans adopted National Socialism as their faith, and, fortunately for the rest of mankind, it crumbled and decayed. The Russians have adopted Communism as their faith. I am quite sure that Communism, as a faith, in itself is totally insufficient to act as even a sop to the troubles of mankind. I believe that any doctrine based entirely on materialism is doomed to failure. If we believe that the Christian faith is the best faith in this respect, I should have thought—and I submit it to the House—that the most practical way of introducing the matter in an attractive form, would be to allow clergymen who are well qualified to teach in the first place, to practise education in lay matters in the schools of this country.
