gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I preface my remarks by saying that I have not spoken in this Chamber before? I find a surprising amount of common ground between myself and the right hon. Member for Bassetlaw (Mr. Bellenger). I am afraid that I cannot go all the way with him, but in deference to the tradition of this House I think it best to steer clear of controversy so far as possible. I hope that the points on which he and I disagree will be dealt with later in the debate. I think I should explain that I represent the Wellingborough division, which is a part of Northamptonshire where  good boots and shoes, including Service boots and shoes, are made. If hon. Members imagine that that industry engenders a pedestrian outlook among my constituents, they will be a little wide of the mark. In the shoe industry one quickly learns to distinguish between ""left"" and ""right"". Politically, Wellingborough is one of the most informed and wide-awake constituencies in the United Kingdom. The proportion of the electorate which went to the polling stations in October was 86·8 per cent. Wellingborough can fairly claim to have made a contribution to the day-to-day affairs here in Parliament. In fact, Mr. Speaker, it was a predecessor of yours, who had his home in the division and who is buried there, who composed there a prayer which is read in this Chamber every day before our proceedings open. It is the prayer which enjoins us to set aside: all private interests, prejudices and partial affections. Judging by some of the remarks made in this debate so far, I have the impression that after 400 years there is still a need in this place for such a prayer. There are two subjects in the White Paper to which I wish to draw attention; finally, I should like to make a general comment on the report itself. Some reference has already been made to our forces in Germany. They figure on the first page of the report. I believe our troops there have reached a very high standard of training, as high as I think they are likely to reach in time of peace. I believe they are a credit to their commanders and, in the wider sense, a credit to the defence effort itself; but inevitably during the last year or two our attention has been diverted to other theatres, to the Mediterranean and other parts of the world. There is a risk we must constantly guard against of the British Army of the Rhine becoming a ""forgotten Army."" They have enjoyed peaceful conditions, and we have all heard the current phrase, ""Join the Armoured Corps and never hear a shot fired."" I appreciate that there has been a great deal of re-equipment during 1959, but the fact remains that our troops are working very closely alongside Dutch and German   units which are exceedingly well-equipped. We should do well to remember that and to bear in mind the effect on our forces of these competitive conditions. Particularly—this is where I go some way towards agreeing with the right hon. Member for Bassetlaw—I should like to see those forces adequately equipped with helicopters. They are expensive things, I know. I am not suggesting this in order to ""keep up with the Joneses""—if such a reference is still allowed—or because the Americans are well ahead of us in this field. I am suggesting, it simply because today the helicopter is the staff car; it is the reconnaisance vehicle; it is the delivery van. Hon. Members may remember that last September—if they were not too preoccupied at the time—an exercise took place on Salisbury Plain for the Strategic Reserve. The exercise was called ""Red Banner"". The Press was there and counted the helicopters and commented unfavourably. I believe that on that occasion the criticism by the Press was a fair one. Admittedly there is mention of helicopters on another page of this Report, but I should like to see more of them in practice and not just in print. So much for equipment. There is a further factor affecting closely the morale of our forces in Germany. That is provision of married quarters, in sufficient numbers and in the right places. It is true that we used to be very comfortably supplied in that respect. The trouble began when we had to redeploy to make room for the coming into being of the new German Army. Then we had to pack our bags, leave our billets, and move out into the street. We are still on the waiting lists. There again, there has been some slight improvement, and I shall not linger on the point, but I am confident that when the Minister really probes it he will find there is substance to it. One final point on our troops in Germany. We have to remember that our forces are there in an operational rôle. The significance of this is that what we may choose to call ""civilianization"" cannot proceed at the same pace or to the same extent there as it does here at home. The result is that our administrative manpower in Germany is thin. We are well below strength in the jobs which  at home are done by civilians. The result is that we have skilled men, fighting troops, who are having to be used in communications, in paperwork and in potato-peeling. I ask the Minister to bear in mind these brief points on equipment and married quarters, which so directly concern the morale of our troops and the administrative manpower situation, which I think is far from satisfactory. Next, I wish to add a word on the subject of mobility, which is mentioned on page 10 of the Report. It is, of course, an axiom that the smaller one's forces are the greater must be their mobility. These three nicely phrased paragraphs in the Report make it appear quite a straightforward problem—a few more Britannias in the air and we are home but, in practice, I believe the Minister will find this problem of mobility more complex than anything with which he met in the Ministry of Transport. There is strategic mobility for which the Britannias admittedly are very well suited—that is, when we want to move troops, say, 5,000 miles—but we all realise that when they get to their destination they might be still hundreds of miles from the scene of action. Then it is that tactical mobility comes in and the Argosies have to take over. As far as I know, that machine will be quite adequate. On the battlefield itself, I am glad to read, we are to have the Rotodyne. That is an admirably conceived, integrated air transport plan. I welcome it, but mobility is intricate because it involves all three Services, because it involves so many incalculables, because it involves, maybe, in this changing world, the impermanence of our bases in Aden, Kenya, Singapore, Cyprus and other places. Mobility is intricate because such a fine assessment has to be made of the optimum range of these transport aircraft. If trouble were to arise, perhaps in the African Continent, who is to say which of the other African States will allow us to overfly them? If there were problems for the Minister with the flyover at Chiswick, I should say that those problems were as nothing compared with the problem of moving our troops swiftly to the scene of trouble. As for the Commando carrier, ""Bulwark"", all credit to those responsible. It is a very fine achievement. I   think it most encouraging. I am glad in addition to learn from what he said today that the Minister realises that it takes two to do this job. We must have one in the Far East, but certainly another somewhere South of Suez, in the neighbourhood of the Arabian Peninsula. I will say no more than this: I welcome this emphasis on mobility, although I believe that to implement it will be no easy matter. It is as important as it is difficult. I believe, however, that the Minister's previous experience will qualify him to grapple with it successfully. May I say a word about the Report as a whole? As a newcomer to the debate I feel rather as if I were attending a shareholders' meeting. We have the annual report, the White Paper, in our hands. The board of directors on the front bench have been obliged by the calendar to put something in print.
