gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Those of us, Mr. Deputy Speaker, who are towards the end of this beauty parade of maidens are at a real disadvantage. So forcefully have others spoken in the past few weeks that if we are conventionally uncontroversial we run the risk of being unconventionally unapplauded. I warn the House that, although I might be uncontroversial today and I might sit down in silence, the time may come when I shall be interrupted. It is an honour and a privilege to represent Darlington. It is one of the great towns of the north. It has a proud history and a real community. It is the home of large companies such as Whessoe, Cummins, Carreras Rothman and Cleveland Bridge, which played a major part in the construction of the Thames barrier which does much to keep the heart of Government dry and the House free from damp. This year, Darlington contributed its own footnote to political history in the recent by-election. I say no more  about that except to tell Opposition Members who invoke the spirit of Darlington that I am the proof. I understand that I am the 14th hon. Member for Darlington. I follow in an honourable tradition that has been laid down by Sir Fergus Graham, Tony Bourne-Anon, Ted Fletcher and Ossie O'Brien. Whether their period of service lasted 20 years or 20 working days, it was given with commitment and in sincerity. The most colourful Member for Darlington appears to have been a free trader after my own heart. I am sorry that the hon. Member for Leeds, West (Mr. Meadowcroft) is not present, because he would be interested to know that Ignatius Trebitsh-Lincoln won the seat of Darlington for the Liberals in 1910 on a free trade platform. He lost it the same year, was later convicted of treason in the first world war and died in Shanghai, accused of collaboration with the Japanese during the second. Today's debate has been about the problems of the north. Many better analysts than I have described them. They are well known to the House and the Government. There is a real shortage of small businesses—about 40 per cent. less in the north than in other parts of the country. Out of 1·25 million small businesses in the country, a bare 58,000 are to be found in the north-east. There is very little new technology—the industries of the future—on Teesside. For at least 20 years, the industrial base of the northeast has been shrinking and job losses continue. I refer to the industries that have served the north so well—the traditional industries of coal and steel, British Rail and heavy engineering. They were the fruits of the first industrial revolution. That revolution was not instigated by regional policy or sectoral aid, but it was successful, none the less. Those industries are now in decline. The problem in the north-east is that we lack an adequate stake in the industries of the future. We appear to be missing out in the second industrial revolution. I come to the role of regional policy. It seems to me that the north-east has had a very great deal of regional policy. It has had regional policy under the last six Governments—Governments of all political persuasions. Even in the last 10 years, of some £3·3 billion worth of grants, the north-east has had £1 billion—30 per cent. —even though the region constitutes a bare 5 or 6 per cent. of the working population. That expenditure on regional development grants now amounts to about £160 for every employee in the region, which is twice as high as the average in the north-west and higher than in Scotland. We have had plenty of regional policy. Unfortunately, we have not had economic development, and my request to both central Government and local government would be that of the reply by the philosopher, Diogenes, to Alexander: Just stand out of the sun a little. Far too much public money has gone into the older industries—the sunset industries—and not into the newer sunrise industries. Governments have pumped billions of pounds into uneconomic industries whose capacity has not been rationalised. There has been plenty of regional policy. Some of it in the very early days—in the late 1960s and early 1970s—has had a quantifiable effect, as anyone who has studied the Department of Industry's papers on the subject will know. But since 1973 or thereabouts the north-east appears to have fossilised. The real tragedy of the north is a simple one. It is not that a reallocation of labour has occurred. It is that it has   taken time. It has taken far too long. Because Governments have continued to misallocate resources, they have prolonged the distortions in our regional economy and they continued to make the ultimate adjustments in the north much more painful than they need have been. It is a criticism of all Governments that by crude macroeconomic management they have denied the north the full benefit of the natural advantages of the region. The north has good communications. It has the space. It has attractive countryside. It has a skilled work force. Above all, it has cheap associated labour costs, by which I mean not cheap wage rates but the associated costs that are an important input to wage rates—the cost of housing and of land. The Government have admitted these differences. Government figures show that the cost of providing Civil Service jobs is much lower in the provinces than it is in London. There is a difference in the amount of money needed to maintain an assistant secretary of £8,298; a principal of £6,758; and of a typist, more than £4,000. That is the difference between servicing a Civil Service job in the provinces and in London. I may be asked, ""It is time to be constructive. What would you like to see the Government do?"" I should like the Government to take action on five counts. I should like them in the very near future to bring to an end national wage bargaining—not to induce lower wages or lower wage increases in areas of high unemployment but to allow companies considering expansion to tak,, advantage of the lower total labour costs which reflect the relative cheapness in the north-east of housing, land and the other input components. I should like to see the Government develop a proper coherent and logical taxation policy which would help smaller businesses: raising the VAT threshold to £50,000 would take about half a million people out of VAT altogether; instructing the Inland Revenue to make qualification for schedule D for the self-employed the norm rather than a hard-won privilege; raising tax allowances for the lower paid as soon as resources allow; and, lastly, announcing and publishing a medium-term taxation strategy alongside the medium-term financial strategy, so that taxpayers can see a steady and gradual reduction in the regular rates as expenditure is brought under control and other resources allow. Small businesses must be fostered. They are being fostered by the Government and I pay tribute to the attention that they are now paying to them, but I am deeply sceptical of the value of some of the enterprise zones that are currently being operated, and very suspicious of some of the local distortions that they may be inducing in the regions in which they are sited. The package of measures, while welcome, is not sufficient. I would far rather have every small company and every small business declared an enterprise zone of its own. For all small companies employing fewer than 50 people, there should be an absolute minimum of regulation, taxation and bureaucratic requirement. We must not forget that most small businesses do not begin in the industrial units allocated by local government or central Government. They begin in the home, in a garage, in the studio, underneath the arches. We are told that the Government are currently reviewing their regional policy, and it is very difficult to get details of the review that is now under way. I would  welcome a little more openness on the part of Government. I see no reason why the comprehensive review that was produced before the general election—or at least the analytical sections of it—should not be published as a consultative document, thus improving the Department's contribution to the requirement of the Croham directive on open government. As to the conclusions to which that review will lead, I should like to see Government concentrate on one or two essentials. To remove some of the discrimination, I see no reason why Darlington, inside the north-east region, should be at a disadvantage as against the rest of the northern region. There is a case for helping industrial sectors selectively rather than regions as a whole. I am delighted to see that my hon. Friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen (Mr. Trippier) advocated precisely that point from the Back Benches less than six months ago. I am sure that he has carried that conviction with him into government. I should like the criteria applied to the regional programme to be fully consistent with developing and changing Community criteria. There is some reason to believe that we are in danger of losing effectiveness in the way that our programme is constructed and submitted to the Commission, as compared with the way in which other countries form their regional policy criteria. I should like to see the regional programme encourage the local agencies—not the large development agencies, the super quangos, but the local business trusts and enterprise agencies—and to develop much more local awareness of the advantages inside particular towns and communities of local purchasing arrangements. Government can do a lot more to change attitudes. As one who was brought up and educated in Scotland—much further north than my constituency—I am amazed to see the attitudes in London towards the north, Scotland and Wales. Those are attitudes that the French would no longer tolerate and that the West Germans would find ridiculous. We are not only over-centralised but absurdly metropolitan in attitude. Everyone seems to want to live and work near London. Civil servants, we are constantly told, must work as near as possible to their Ministers. I should like to see Government making a much greater effort to put more of their work, functions and staff into regions such as the north. The Fleming and Hardman dispersals were never carried through to their logical conclusion, and we still lack an adequate proportion of Civil Service jobs in the north-east. The attitude must come from the top. If it does so, it will percolate to the bottom. Instead of treating our regions as forgotten parts of our country, instead of treating any sign of good news, good industrial recovery in the north, as the first flutterings of life on a dead planet, the Government should encourage a policy of rejoicing in our regions, rejoicing in the strength and variety of the regions. Such strength and variety are nowhere better demonstrated than in the town of Darlington, which I have the honour to serve.
