gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
A distinguished retired naval officer who is now a distinguished official of another place has described the design of the Palace of Westminster to me as being as complex as that of a pre-1914 battleship. I trust that the House will bear with me if I get lost this morning. In one's maiden speech it is customary to refer to one's predecssor. This I gladly do. Jeffrey Archer was highly regarded in Louth as a man who always pursued   with zeal and energy the interests of the constituency and his constituents. In the years before his time we were represented by Sir Cyril Osborne, a man of strong views and great determination. The Louth constituency is not particularly well known to many people because we are in a part of England that people see only if they deliberately go there; no one passes through Louth by chance. But it is a constituency which is remarkably varied. We have a little of everything—docks and industry at Immingham, a seaside resort at Cleethorpes and above all the most beautiful farming land in England. As an ex-sailor I am delighted to represent a large number of the members of the Grimsby fishing fraternity. We are also part of two counties, the old represented by Lincolnshire and the new by Humberside. We are a child of that remarkable creature, the estuarial concept. I trust that the right hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. Bottomley) will forgive me if I do not take up his remarks directly. I want to speak briefly about the Beira Patrol. It has been in being since 1966 and is designed to prevent goods from entering Rhodesia by sea by way of Portuguese East Africa. The patrol is provided by frigates of the Royal Navy. The idea is that these ships move up and down a patrol line off the east coast of Africa and intercept ships going to Beira which are believed to be carrying goods destined for Rhodesia. The idea is that the frigates persuade those ships to turn back. I say ""try"" to persuade because, although there have been about 50 interceptions in the last eight years, we do not know how successful the patrol has been. What we do know is that it is the most boring task imaginable and that the problem of keeping up morale is immense. There is a limit even to the ingenuity of the Royal Navy to find ways of whiling away the futile weeks off the coast of Africa. The most frustrating thing for the ships' companies involved is that they know they are taking part in an operation that has failed, that they are patrolling off the east coast at the behest of the United Nations to enforce sanctions when many of the member States of the United Nations, not least African  members, are continuing to trade with Rhodesia. I recently heard a report that the Beira Patrol was not continuous. If there is not a ship on patrol all the time, this futile exercise is reduced to the level of farce. It cannot be said that we are fulfilling the United Nations request to intercept all ships going into Beira, to ensure that they are not carrying goods for Rhodesia, if there is not a ship on patrol all the time. I hope that the Minister of State will tell us whether it is true that the patrol is no longer continuous. It is a strange fact that at present we are pursuing our vendetta against Rhodesia by using ships most of which have called at Simonstown on the way to the Indian Ocean. The Foreign Secretary told us this earlier this week in response to a question by my right hon. Friend the Member for Worcester (Mr. Walker) on the Simonstown Agreement. I have said that I believe that sanctions have failed, but I believe also that they have hurt primarily those whom they were aimed to help—namely, the black Africans. The number of citizens of Zambia and Malawi now employed in Rhodesia is vastly smaller than 10 years ago. It is an extraordinary form of help that hurts those whom it is nominally setting out to assist. Both the Foreign Secretary and my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Hexham (Mr. Rippon), to whom I add my congratulations on his new appointment, have talked of the wisdom of Sir Alec Douglas-Home. Sir Alec said at Blackpool last October, having talked about the reasons why we were continuing to support the order, that the time might come when we would have to tell the United Nations that sanctions had failed. I believe that that time is now. Because I believe that the time is now, I cannot accept the advice of my right hon. and learned Friend and the Foreign Secretary. Because I believe sanctions that have failed, I shall vote against the order.
