gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a sense of great honour and humility that I seek today to address the House for the first time—honour because, despite much fashionable and ill-informed talk which goes on elsewhere about the decline of the importance of the House, I believe that it is the greatest forum for decision in our country as of course  it should be, and humility because I feel deeply the weight of responsibility which the people of Melton Mowbray have put upon me and I am conscious of my inadequacies in discharging it. The hon. Member for Leeds, West (Mr. Dean) has just made his maiden speech. It is not for me as a brand new Member to compliment him on it. Older and wiser Members will do that and do it properly. I just say that I knew Mr. Charles Pannell, his predecessor, slightly when I was engaged in the building industry, and he was much respected and admired for the period when he was Minister of Public Building and Works. For the past 17 years Melton Mowbray was served by as fine a Member as the people of that constituency could have hoped for, Miss Mervyn Pike. I know that she was much respected and admired throughout the whole constituency and I also know, from talking to senior right hon. and hon. Members, that she was much loved and respected in the House, too. Many hon. Members will know, I think, that she has become Director-General of the Women's Royal Voluntary Service, and I am sure that her passionate interest in the social services will ensure that she brings as much lustre to her new high office as she did to debates here. The constituency that I now represent is large, with 82,000 electors, having lost 10,000 of them at the redistribution to my hon. Friend the Member for Harborough (Mr. Farr). It is often thought of as being entirely rural, but that is a misconception. Like Gaul, my constituency is divided into three parts. There is the market town of Melton Mowbray, famous for its pork pies and sausages, but also the home of a large and well-known pet food firm. Then there are the great rural expanses of the Vale of Belvoir, parts of the Soar Valley and the areas to the south of Melton Mowbray which are well known to right hon. and hon. Members who ride to hounds. There are the industrial villages of the Soar Valley, where there is plenty of light industry and many people who work in the city of Leicester. The level of commuting and, I am happy to say, the level of employment are very high in my constituency. It is also one of the fastest growing in a county which itself is rapidly expanding in population. One feature of my constituency is the number of new private housing estates. There is one sizeable village, East Goscote, which consists entirely of new private houses, many of which did not exist at the 1970 General Election. Housing, therefore, is a major issue to my constituents, and I hope that I may use the rest of my few remarks to refer to those parts of the Gracious Speech which deal with housing, particularly the section which says, Urgent measures will be taken to reverse the fall in house-building"". Before I do that, I must honour one important tradition of the House by declaring an interest. Up to the end of 1973 I was director of the House-Builders Federation and I was also parliamentary officer for the National Federation of Building Trades Employers. Although I no longer hold any employed position with either of those bodies. I have a small consultancy business and the NFBTE is one of my clients and pays me a fee. I need hardly say, though, that everything I have to say in this House expresses my own views. I am sure that the NFBTE would disagree with many of them. I must also endeavour to honour the wise tradition of this House that maiden speeches should be entirely non-controversial, and I want to restrict myself entirely to practical points. There is no point in pretending that the housing situation is satisfactory, because manifestly it is not. The level of private housing starts—and it is only of private housing that I speak—is clearly disturbing. A total of 9,335 houses were started in Great Britain in January 1974, and the three-month period November 1973 to January 1974 showed a 19 per cent. decline compared with August to October and—perhaps much more serious—a 36 per cent. decline on November 1972 to January 1973. The Economic Development Committee for Building recently forecast a possible decline in private starts of 45 per cent. in 1974. All my personal contacts in the industry lead me to suggest that without changes of policy that might prove an optimistic assumption. It is no secret why this situation has arisen. It is because of the high level of interest rates and the shortage of  building society finance. When mortgage finance is readily available, housing booms; when it is short, builders cut back on output to avoid having unsold houses on their hands. It is a fact of life. I have yet to be persuaded that any Government can do very much about it. I fear, therefore, that the Secretary of State for the Environment has as gloomy a task ahead of him in his high office as had my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Hexham (Mr. Rippon). There is little that either can do on their own. What needs to be done requires the support of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and in some cases it is beyond the control of the Government altogether. Clearly a start must be made, because neither side of the House is prepared to tolerate for one minute longer than necessary the present grossly unsatisfactory state of affairs. It seems to me from the side lines that the scope for immediate action takes two main forms. First, the whole of the Government's diplomatic expertise must be exerted to try to bring down world interest rates. We cannot reduce our interest rates unilaterally, but we can use our good offices to try to induce a more stable level of international financing. As long as the mortgage rate is 11 per cent., the monthly outgoings will have a sharply deterrent effect at the lower end of the housing market. Secondly, I have always favoured the use of the banks' excess profits to help the building societies with an immediate cash injection. I know that this raises money supply problems, but we shall never get anywhere if the societies are left in their present exposed position. I remember both the Chairman and the Secretary-General of the Building Societies Association saying to me just before Christmas that the societies were simply not geared to cope with an 11 per cent. mortgage rate and a 7½ per cent. investment rate. At present the banks are making large profits from relending, at 13 or 14 per cent., money which has been deposited with them at the Government-imposed maximum figure of 9½ per cent. At the same time the banks are charging builders 16 or 17 per cent. or more to finance their business and similar sums to house purchasers who are seeking bridging loans. If my proposition proves unacceptable, then I would urge instead that the banks be induced to make advances on bridging loans for the purchase of the cheaper houses at a specially low rate of interest for the next six months. I know that the industry put this proposition to the bankers just before Christmas. It has merit because it would help to open up the chain of purchase in the second-hand part of the market which at the moment is collapsing. Therefore, on the demand and finance side of the equation there is no substitute for cash on the table for the building societies as soon as possible. Of course, if nothing is done, the market will adjust to the situation. Prices will continue to fall sharply both for houses and for land, and builders will try to cope with the situation. But the transition will be unpleasant and unwelcome and will result in supply and demand stabilising at a considerably lower level of new construction than any right hon. or hon. Gentleman would consider to be satisfactory. I hope that that thought alone will be a source of strength to the Secretary of State when he is urging the case for more money for housing with his colleagues in the Cabinet. While talking of tackling the demand on the finance side, I am sure that the Ministers will not wish to neglect consideration of the question of resources. I suppose for the house-building industry as a whole resources must involve materials, labour, plant, equipment and land. On land—which is not currently a constraint—the Gracious Speech says that Ministers will be bringing their proposals before the House. Materials, plant and equipment are obviously largely a matter for industrial decision, save that we need a reasonably stable level of output, which we have not had for over 10 years. On labour, I would only say that the present recession in the industry, although bad in every other way, will substantially reduce the trend towards self-employment and site bargaining; indeed, it is already doing so. I do not believe that it is necessary for Ministers to legislate on this matter since market forces are doing the job for them. But if, once Ministers have read the report on this matter which is being prepared by the Misselbrook Committee, they still feel they must  bring legislation before the House, I hope that they will ensure that the terms of the Bill are capable of being applied on site and that they are drawn up with proper consideration for the practicalities of the industry. I believe that now is the time for Ministers and the industry as a whole to make a dramatic reform of the apprentice situation. I strongly suggest that policy could be based on four premises. First, apprentices should be trained more quickly and should receive a much more realistic wage from the word go. Indeed, the whole wage structure of the building industry requires substantial reform. Secondly, I believe that this should be the responsibility of a new manpower board for the industry which would be responsible for all indentured labour and also for proper manpower and output forecasting, which are either nonexistent or inadequate at present. Thirdly, there must clearly be some system of financial aid based on the levy system for carrying out training, and every significant firm in the industry must do its bit. That may require the manpower board to have power to impose some sort of financial sanction on firms which ""pinch"" boys who have served their time with another firm. That is an issue that the House may be able to discuss at a later stage. The fourth premise is that conditions on site must be speedily improved. It is understood that this will have to be paid for. We all bear a heavy responsibility in considering housing matters. Our constituents are groaning under 11 per cent. mortgage interest rates or are desperately seeking mortgages for their dream homes. Our builder constituents are at their wits' end to know how to continue trading or to build the houses which this House wants to see built. As a result of circumstances largely out of the control of any Government, the Secretary of State faces one of the gravest crises in housing since the war. If the measures which he brings before the House turn out to be fair, effective and practical, they will, I am sure, receive widespread support.
