gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This will be a very short maiden speech indeed because the time which I have at my disposal is now not very long. The subject to which I want to refer briefly is one which I believe is vital to the economic future of the country, and it is one to which not nearly enough attention is being paid at present. It has been a familiar theme in recent years and throughout this debate that British industry must increase its efficiency and that productivity must be increased. There is one aspect of this at which both the Government and industry have to look with a great sense of urgency, and that is the whole aspect of business education and a growing sense of professionalism throughout industrial life. I believe that it is not inappropriate that I should raise this subject, because the constituency which I represent, Brentford and Chiswick, is the home of some of the best known brand names in the country, manufacturing firms which make a considerable contribution to the economy of the country. I understand that one of these firms is now benefiting from the services of my predecessor as  Member for this constituency, Mr. Dudley Smith, and if he serves it as diligently as I believe he served the interests of his constituents while he was a Member of the House, then that firm will be very fortunate indeed. In this country we have just started two business schools, one in London and one in Manchester. Both are offering post-experience courses and soon will be offering post-graduate courses, too. There are other courses in management studies available at universities, colleges of advanced technology, technical colleges and schools of commerce. It is true that the Government are trying to encourage local education authorities to provide more education in technical colleges for management and supervisory courses. To that extent it is true that business education has arrived in this country. But we are still only making up lost ground compared with modern industrial countries with which we are trying to compete. For example, when they get going London and Manchester are aiming merely to offer the same sort of thing as is available at Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and it is only London and Manchester in this country which are batting in this league. Even when they get going in a few years' time they will be offering courses for only a few hundred students—and this at a time when British industry is supposed to need about 20,000 new managers every year. In this situation two things have to be done. First, the Government must provide a much more definite framework in which to co-ordinate and stimulate all efforts in this field. Secondly, industry must show a much greater awareness of the fact that there are these modern techniques to be learned. Let me give an example. For some years ""marketing"" has been a magic word in industry—and it still is. I wish that even half the people who have bandied the word ""marketing"" about appreciated what it meant. It is the drawing together of all the threads to ensure that the right product is on sale at the right place to the right people at the right price and at the right time. It is the catalyst which makes the whole commercial operation work. This country is still paying the penalty for having initiated the great Industrial   Revolution of the last century. We still have far too many companies that are production orientated. It is very significant that those companies that are most successful in the most competitive markets are nearly always those that are truly marketing orientated. There is still far too great a disparity in the incomes and standards of living of different sections. In a recent television programme there was a dialogue between a bus driver and the head of one of the big companies. I do not think that I have ever felt so angry towards our society as I did then, not so much because of what was said but because of the sheer uncomprehending nature of the discussion on either side. It was a very salutary reminder of the gulfs in our society that still remain to be closed. The rewards and privileges of leadership in industry are very great, but so are the responsibilities. It is no use talking about more business education and a greater sense of professionalism in British industry unless they are accompanied by a better sense of proportion on the part of all of us in assessing the rightful place everybody must have in the community. Yesterday there was good news about doctors' pay, but the legitimate claims of many other sections—the people working the buses, teachers and nurses, to name but a few—must be satisfied before very long, because we must always remember that the price which a society puts on the services which different sections provide is a sure sign of the values according to which that society tries to live.
