gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The constituency that I now have the honour to represent is tucked away in the foothills of the Pennines and is part of the economy of North-East Lancashire. Like the rest of that area, it is still very much based on traditional industries, particularly footwear and textiles. My predecessor, Mr. Bray, worked hard for his constituency but was unable to diversify the industrial base, and the loss of insured population continued. I make no apology for concentrating on the footwear aspect of my constituency. Nationally, footwear employs 85,000 people, and about 50,000 more in ancillary jobs, and the turnover is £350 million per annum. It compares with many of the more spectacular industries. In Rossendale, two towns particularly depend on the industry. In Rawtenstall 24 per cent. of the insured population work in the industry, while in Bacup the figure is 30 per cent. It is not unreasonable to say that virtually half the economy of my constituency rests upon the industry. I was, therefore, particularly interested in that part of the Gracious Speech which said that the fulfilment of the social contract was seen as a means of maintaining employment, particularly in the older industrial areas. About 35 per cent. of employees in the industry in Rossendale are working short time. It is significant   that next week the industry will be celebrating—if that is the right word in present circumstances—its centenary. The industry faces two kinds of problem. There is a long-term problem relating to its structure, which was based on small family firms. Although one employer has extended and rationalised across the industry, there is still far too great a concentration of employment in small family firms. The attitudes of the industry in the past could have been described as conservative—I hasten to add, with a small ""c""—but the climate of opinion is changing. Representatives of both the manufacturers and the unions have recently suggested to me that there was a need for at least a little Neddy. I would suggest going further and extending the operations of the National Enterprise Board, which the Secretary of State described today as ""the only way"", to this industry. But even if we go only as far as a little Neddy there are certain problems. The little Neddy would have to be all-embracing. I am assured by many friends in the industry that, whereas on the manufacturing side they would wish to reach agreement with the Government, any arrangement, to be effective, would need to include distribution and retailing, and there could be problems there. What they were most emphatic about was that with the increasing competition from overseas the industry's only way forward is a collective solution. These are long-term proposals, but there are severe short-term problems as well, arising from international trade. Again with interest, I see from the Gracious Speech that the Government will promote international efforts to establish a more liberal pattern of trade. That is a praiseworthy aim which we should all seek, but the trade we wish to liberalise must be fair, unlike that which is threatening the jobs of so many of my constituents. I have already talked to various members of the Government about the import situation, and I know that representations have been made to them from other quarters. From the Comecon countries of Eastern Europe alone—Poland, Romania and Czechoslovakia—in the full year of  1973 we imported 5·36 million pairs of shoes. Between January and July of this year 5·42 million were imported. So the figure for those seven months exceeded the whole of the previous year. The prices of these imports led one strongly to suspect dumping. There is an immediate need for import restriction. The Conservative Government of 1970–74 reached a voluntary agreement, particularly with Poland, which is now being breached. If voluntary agreement cannot be operated, we must urgently seek to impose anti-dumping legislation. As if the import position were not enough, the industry is now threatened by restrictions on exports. Only on 18th October the Australian Government imposed a quota system on footwear, aimed mainly at cheap imports from Hong Kong and Taiwan but also affecting Britain, and particularly companies in my constituency. According to the Lancashire Footwear Manufacturers' Association, its immediate effect will be to prevent the export to Australia of £250,000 worth of footwear. The initial request that I would urge the House to accept is very modest—that those companies which have already entered into contracts or have shipped goods or hold irrevocable letters of credit in exporting to Australia should be allowed to complete their contracts in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the parties, and that goods on the high seas or currently being manufactured in Rossendale should not be prevented from being exported. But it is a matter of urgency that the Government must pursue these negotiations now. In Rossendale we cannot afford the kind of hardship which is being created. Earlier this afternoon, at Question Time, my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Industry, the Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher), said that the work of his Department was job preservation. If that is so, in the long term we must restructure industry, but in the short term it is absolutely essential that we are protected from unfair trade through imports and that the export situation, particularly with regard to Australia, is cleared up. Immediately before the February General Election the Granada Television   company held a series of programmes in my constituency called ""Crisis 74"". Those programmes dealt specifically with the crisis caused by the energy problems and the problems of the three-day working week. I hope that there will be no recurrence, with a ""Crisis 75"" held in Rossendale to deal with a three-day working week which might be continuing then.
