gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with pride and pleasure that I rise to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate as the hon. Member for the new constituency of Ellesmere Port and Neston. The constituency is to be found at the southern end of the Wirral peninsula, sandwiched between the waters of the Dee and the Mersey. It has three main parts. The first is the town of Ellesmere Port, in which two thirds of my constituents have their homes. It is a town created by the industrial revolution and the Manchester ship canal. In the 1950s and 1960s it was one of the nation's boom towns, when its population almost doubled, The town hosts a wide cross-section of industry, including the massive oil refining complex at Stanlow, a major factory of Vauxhall Motors, a power station, fertiliser plants, several chemical works, a paper mill and the headquarters of several major building firms. The second part is the town of Neston and villages of south Wirral. Burton, Neston and Parkgate were each in their turn the principal port for the Irish trade before the silting up of the Dee estuary. Neston now contains the Morgan Crucibles factory, and the Marconi underwater systems plant which was opened by the Prime Minister in 1981. These first two parts of the constituency form the borough of Ellesmere Port and Neston, which, while containing less than 10 per cent. of the population of Cheshire, provides 15 per cent. of jobs in that county. The third component of my constituency is the Cheshire villages to the west of the city of Chester from which many constituents commute to Merseyside and Chester but which also house in the village of Capenhurst and uranium enrichment plant of British Nuclear Fuels. In the previous Parliament, Ellesmere Port was represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Wirral, South (Mr. Porter). Neston and the villages of south Wirral were represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Wirral, West (Mr. Hunt), and the Cheshire villages were represented by my hon. Friend the Member for City of Chester (Mr. Morrison) to whom I extend my heartiest congratulations on his recent appointmet as Minister of State, Department of Employment. Each of those hon. Members is held in the highest esteem in the parts of my constituency that he formerly represented. I shall need to work extremely hard to match their reputations. I spoke earlier of the boom years of Ellesmere Port. Regrettably, those boom years and the recession have now combined to present the constituency with some formidable employment problems. First, the functional landscape contains almost the reverse of the national ratio of employment in manufacturing and service industries. In the last year for which comparisons are available, 61 per cent. of local employment was in manufacturing, compared with a national average of 32 per cent., while only 38 per cent. of local employment was in the service industries, compared with a national average of 65 per cent. Nationwide, manufacturing industries have been hardest hit by the recession and are finding recovery most difficult. The predominantly manufacturing base of the local economy also provides less opportunity for female workers. My predecessor, my hon. Friend the Member for Wirral, South, in his maiden speech on 16 May 1979 said: Ellesmere Port is a bustling modern town with a diversity of industry which has not to date suffered the ravages of unemployment which are all too common in the north-west… But I fear that the clouds are looming on the not too distant horizon.""—[Official Report, 16 May 1979; Vol. 967, c. 253.] How right he was. Those clouds were looming. In the intervening years, unemployment has taken its toll, with more than 7,000 job losses in the town. The Burmah Castrol oil refinery has been closed, there have been major redundancies in many other industries, and just over the constituency border lie the gaunt remains of Shotton steelworks, where many of my constituents formerly worked. Added to that, the Government's recent decision to phase out lead in petrol poses another threat to more than 2,000 employees at the plant of Associated Octel within my constituency. My hon. Friend the Member for Wirral, West, in his maiden speech on 12 April 1976, said: It is youth unemployment that must have the concern of us all. For school leavers to move from the classroom to the dole is for them to understand in accordance with the education that they have been given, that they have failed.""— [Official Report, 12 April 1976; Vol. 909, c. 970.] Since that time, the problem of youth unemployment in my constituency has worsened considerably. In part, that is a result of the dramatic increase in the population of Ellesmere Port which occurred up to 1970 and has produced a high ratio in the 16 to 20-year-old band who are today finding it so difficult to obtain their first job. However, I am pleased to say that employees, managements and local authorities in my constituency have not been slow to respond to the problems. In particular, the local authority was the first in the northwest to take advantage of Government job creation   schemes. It carried through an ambitious scheme to convert 40 former houses into workshop and commercial units. New industrial estates have been created, significant land reclamation schemes have been embarked upon and excellent communication links have been further improved. Companies are diversifying and investing in new technology. Managers in our industries are learning new skills, improving training practices and increasing the competence of employees at all levels. They realise that the Government cannot do for industry those things that it needs to do for itself. They realise that in the final analysis the road to success is to provide the right products at the right time and at the right price. Innovation, efficiency and hard work are the essential ingredients, and they must come from within our industrial organisations. Managers also realise that some of the underlying problems are national and international in character. They realise that many local initiatives have only been possible and will only continue to be possible if the Government create the conditions in which industry can flourish. Much has been done and much remains to be done, but it must be done in partnership. That is why I urge the Government to ensure that the current review results in a bold regional industrial policy which will tackle the underlying problems. We need a policy that strongly favours the creation of jobs in manufacturing industries; that directs assistance in areas of high unemployment towards labour-intensive industries; that does more to alleviate the tragedy of youth unemployment; that relieves the burden on those who want to start or expand businesses by cutting the burden of rates, taxes and unnecessary bureaucracy; that rewards initiative, flair and imagination; and, finally, that offers help and relief to firms that face difficulties that are not of their making. The people in my constituency are hard working, innovative, resourceful and sensible. They know that the Government alone cannot solve industrial problems; that there must be a partnership. My constituents will be bold and imaginative in responding to the challenge. I urge the Government to be equally bold and imaginative when formulating their new industrial policies.
