gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is my maiden speech I take great pleasure in paying tribute to my predecessor, Ian Mikardo. He represented constituencies in Bow and Poplar for 23 years, and he first entered the  House in 1950. He was much loved and respected both here and throughout the country for his wit and wisdom. I wish him a happy retirement. I hope that he will write his memoirs so that we can all read the many wonderful stories that he has to tell. My predecessor loved this place and I hope that I shall find it as attractive as he did. When I arrived here I was greeted with cries of, ""When are you going to start the book?"" I have to inform hon. Members that I shall disappoint them, as I have no talents in that direction. At first, I found that many things here were strange. It is strange to be debating a serious subject at this time of night. Perhaps this accounts for the fact that out of 633 Members of Parliament only 41 are women. What young woman with children could be attracted to a place in which one has to spend half the night and work such unsocial hours? At one time I taught in Holloway prison—I hasten to add as a visiting teacher. It shares many similarities with this place, which is dark and gloomy. We lose our name and we are referred to by the name of our constituencies. We hardly see our families, unless they come to visit us in the family room. That is another reason why women are not attracted to stand for Parliament. The sentence that the result of the election has given to my constituents is very serious. It means that many of them are imprisoned for another four years in crumbling flats and in the despair of poverty and unemployment. I am very honoured to represent Bow and Poplar. I ask for the indulgence of the House while I speak about the east end. I was born and bred there; I went to school there; my father was a Stepney councillor; I taught for many years in east end schools. I feel that I know what is needed by the people in the east end and how they feel and think, because I have suffered from many of the same problems. There is widespread unemployment, 28 per cent. among men and 15 per cent. among women. There is a serious problem of homelessness and higher than average mortality and perinatal mortality rates. There are long hospital waiting lists, fewer cars than average and bad transport, particularly from north to south. Lest anybody should think that all is bleak and gloomy in the east end, I must point out that there is much there that we treasure. There is a rich cultural life; enriched by people from many parts of the world. We have the river. The area in which I was born, once known as Red Cliff, was a salubrious area centuries ago, where people from the City went to take the air and to convalesce. So there is a natural beauty in the area, which has been destroyed by man. There is also warmth and compassion, and the companionship that enables poor people to survive harsh conditions. There is great courage and close family life, which is under threat because the children of people living in the east end can no longer afford to live there. When they move out, their parents will be left alone to fend for themselves, which is not as it should be. I lived in the east end during the war when we were under serious threat, but we fought back. I was an air raid warden. My first ideals of Socialism were strengthened when I saw ordinary working men and women, who had never been given the chance to do anything but menial jobs, take command during air raids when the area was cut off. The sent for the fire and rescue services and saw about people being clothed and fed. They did all that and I   realised the talent that is wasted among working people because this society has no use for it and does not allow them to get out into the light and to use it. We are under attack once again. We are under attack from the reforms that are proposed in the Gracious Speech. We cringe when we hear the word ""reform"". I am reminded of Humpty Dumpty in ""Alice Through the Looking Glass"", who explained his strange use of words. 'When I use a word' Humpty Dumpty said 'it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more nor less.' 'The question is' said Alice 'whether you can make words mean so many different things.' 'The question is' said Humpty Dumpty 'which is to be master, that's all.' In this Government's looking-glass world, the word ""reform"" is used to mean the opposite of reform. It is used when the Prime Minister means that she is going into the attack. To people in Tower Hamlets, the ""reform"" of education means that the prices of school meals will increase and that the children whose parents cannot afford the extra fees for woodwork or home economics will be excluded from those extra subjects. Where are we to find the extra teachers to look after the children who will be excluded from those subjects because their parents do not have the money to pay for the materials? ""Reform"" in education will also mean the introduction of something like the 11-plus. As a former teacher in the east end, I shall have a great deal more to say, when the time comes, about the obscenity of the 11-plus and the loss of confidence that system brought about in 90 per cent. of the children whom I taught. The ""reform"" of the Health Service means that we already have a private hospital that is drawing staff from the London hospital, and increasing the waiting lists for people who cannot afford to do other than use the Health Service, which is no longer serving their needs as it should. I have dozens and dozens of letters that are cries of pain from people who cannot get the treatment that they need and, indeed, the treatment for which they have paid when they paid their national insurance contributions. The ""reform"" of social security will be an attack on young people who are unemployed. It will make them work for a pittance and undercut other people's wages. It will cut the maternity grant and various other benefits. The community charge will increase costs for everybody in Tower Hamlets. The average rate per household is £548 and the estimated community charge per adult will be £639. Therefore, even a pensioner or any single person living on his own will have to pay £91 more per year under the community charge. So much for reform. Now the Government's reforming zeal has been turned to the inner city. The London docklands development corporation is put forward as the jewel in the Government's crown—a blueprint for urban development corporations in other major cities. But we who live with the problems created by the LDDC can tell hon. Members that the jewel is paste and the crown is tarnished. A historic opportunity to solve the housing problems of the east end once and for all is being frittered away. In Tower Hamlets we need an improved environment, homes and jobs. Let us examine the record of the LDDC. As a child I grew up within the sound of the river, but not the sight of it. I could hear the ships' horns, but in front of me was a grey dock wall. There was a little park some distance away where a small area of the river bank was  open and we played. I hoped when those docks closed and the jobs were lost that there would at least be some community gain and at last we could have a riverside walk. Some £300 million to £400 million has been spent. When I visit the east end and the Isle of Dogs today I get the feeling that it is as the Wild West must have been. There is plunder in the air. The biggest growth industries are wine bars and real estate agents. The area should be developed for the benefit of the people. I do not believe that anyone should be allowed to build right on to the river hank. It should be for the use of the whole population, not for the pleasure of the privileged few. The proposals for Canary wharf are architecturally and otherwise obscene. It will obscure the view of Greenwich which east enders have enjoyed for many generations. Land prices are rocketing and house prices are spiralling. I have a cutting from a local newspaper about a new development which has just come on the market in Wapping and it states: Under LDDC rules the homes were offered to Tower Hamlets residents for the first month, but there was not a single offer from local people for the flats which cost £90,000 plus. What a mockery! On paper the residents have the first offer of the houses, but they cannot afford to pay for them. Instead the houses go to outsiders and local people have no chance to live in the area where their families have, always lived. Has the money used by the LDDC been well spent? It claims that 8,000 additional jobs have been created, but more than 5,000 of them were transfers from the outside, from Billingsgate and the printing industry. Only 2,800 of those new jobs were real new jobs. Some 3,355 jobs have been lost through firms being squeezed out by compulsory purchase orders and rising land prices. Despite all that money being spent, there has been a net loss of 517 jobs. So much for the benefits that the LDDC has brought to the unemployed in the east end. Canary wharf is in my constituency on the Isle of Dogs. This huge development was given planning permission in two weeks—less time than it takes to get planning permission for a fish a chip shop. After 18 months the master building agreement is still not signed. Two of the developers have pulled out and now a new developer from Canada is said to be moving in. It is all secret. We do not know what is happening. We are not consulted. The development is simply being imposed on us. The land was offered to the Canary wharf consortium at a price well below its market value. We do not know how the price was arrived at. Was it based on a certificate from an independent valuer or did the Department of the Environment give its specific consent to dispose of the land at a price lower than its market value? We have not been told. The local community groups do not want Canary wharf. They do not want the docklands highway that is to go with it, which will make life a misery for many local people, and they do not want to have anything to do with the obscene idea of a £30 million memorial statue in an area where so much else is needed. These disgraceful ideas have nothing to do with the needs of the people in Bow and Poplar. Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co., the accountants of the LDDC, reported that the number of jobs that we had been told that Canary wharf would produce had been vastly overestimated, that most of the jobs would be for   people brought in from the outside once again and that only about 1,800 jobs would be provided for local people. Most of those jobs would be part-time and many of them would be cleaning jobs. The developers, on the other hand, were to get very great gains. They would get tax relief which could be written off against of any of their developments anywhere in the country and the Exchequer would pay about £80 million in lieu of rates. Tower Hamlets council will not gain because it will lose the block grant. It will lose £1·3 million for every £1 million of rateable value of Canary wharf and there will be a net loss to the community. Canary wharf will change the face of the east end and of London. It will extend the City into the east end. Aldgate already looks dehumanised. It is already part of the City, and that change will go further. Local people are considered to be in the way. This is not the first time that people have been pushed out because they ae considered to be in the way. It happened in the 18th century to the peasants, with the enclosure of the land. Today some councils are selling off council estates, moving the tenants out and handing those estates over to private developers. The London docklands development corporation commissioned a report by Sandra Wallman of University College. She started with recommended points for the consortium of Canary wharf. She talks about dockland traditions, and this is very significant. She said: This issue is more diffuse, covering the need for some parcel(s) of land to be held in trust so that the continuity of the traditional community is assured, the matter of local place names and the environment. Commitment to local identity in all its forms is a serious need at this initial stage. What does that mean? Does it mean that the east enders are to be pushed into some parcel of land that has been set aside, just as the red Indians were pushed into reservations? At least the Dutch bought the island of Manhattan for beads; the LDDC is getting the Isle of Dogs for a song. Is it considering allowing a small group of east enders to stay on the Isle of Dogs to be a sort of living museum—a ""chirpy, cheeky, Cockney, chappy"" living museum? Would we be walking around wearing cloth caps and mufflers and saying, ""Gor blimey, Guy. How's your trouble and strife? She's up the apples and pears."" What kind of nonsense is this? Is this what the LDDC has in store for us? Is the City to move in and take over while a few of us will be allowed to stay on some parcel of land, squeezed into a corner of the Isle of Dogs? East enders are not going to stand for that. We refuse to be treated like this. East enders are proud people; they are fighters. They fought Mosley in Cable street. They knew how to unite—community side by side with community—against the people who were attacking them. They stood firm during the war and they will stand firm against attacks on their way of life today. We are not backward-looking. We want to keep the best of the old traditions and we want to take advantage of new technology. We want the training that is needed to go with that new technology. We want homes with gardens for our people and for the children. We want jobs and a better environment. We do not want decisions that affect our lives to be taken in secret. We want democratic control of the land to be returned to the community. As we have  resisted before we shall resist the LDDC plans that are against our interests now. I shall be proud to be part of that resistance.
