gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that in making a maiden speech it is customary to refer to one's constituency and also one's predecessor. I have recently been elected as the Member for Ilford, North. So far as my predecessor is concerned, there are many in the House who know of his wide range of interests. Let me say that the previous speech was one after his own heart. If the hon. Member for St. Albans (Mr. Goodhew) suggests that nowhere in the country was the issue put to the electorate as he has put it to the House today, I must tell him that in Ilford, North the matter was put in exactly those terms and that the person who put it forward was rejected. My immediate predecessor was Mr. Iremonger, but I should like to go back to an earlier predecessor. Helping me in the election in Ilford, North was somebody who was elected to the House in 1945, Mrs. Mabel Ridealgh, of whom I am very proud. During two election campaigns this year she has been my constant aide and supporter in the struggle to win Ilford, North. I am particularly anxious to mention her because I see from the records of the House that in a debate which she initiated as far back as 1949 she spoke about housing in Ilford. She spoke about it in terms which I might use in describing the situation there today. She talked of sad cases which came before her, of young couples coming to her in tears telling her of their parlous housing conditions, of the overcrowding which they suffered, and of the breakdown in relationships which occurred within their family circle because no housing was available. It is a great tragedy that now, 25 years afterwards, the children of that generation are in exactly the same situation. In the Gracious Speech the Government say that they will continue their policy of encouraging local authorities and housing associations to provide more homes to rent. I know only too well, from my experience in local government as well as in working in my constituency, how vital this is. The Government must look beyond encouraging authorities, be they local councils or housing associations, and ask themselves, if these agencies fail, whether they should  consider other ways of meeting the serious housing problem which, as the Prime Minister said in the House today, is perhaps worse than it has been since the immediate pre-war period. For young people waiting for homes the opportunities grow less. With the decline in rented accommodation, the ever-increasing cost of repayments on mortgages and the spiralling cost of house purchase, young working people give a hollow laugh at the idea that a 9½ per cent. mortgage repayment would be of any help to them. In a situation in which the initial deposit on a house costs them thousands rather than hundreds, even the inducement offered by Conservative candidates of a gift towards the deposit means nothing to them. This means that the Government have a duty, which they have set themselves today, not merely to ensure that there is a stable flow of mortgage funds but to make certain that those funds are available at a level which young people setting out in life, starting their families and facing mortgage repayments on one wage are able to meet. As long ago as the time of their grandparents, this very issue was before the House. I believe that many of those grandparents who were promised homes ""fit for heroes to live in"", have their own type of housing problem. For the most senior members of that generation it can take one form or another. First, they may be living in miserable, cramped and unsuitable accommodation in their declining years. The other side of the picture is represented by those who, after waiting for years and years to be rehoused, found houses with sufficient room for their families but now find that their children have grown up and moved out. The result is that many old people are living against their will in houses which are far too big for their needs. That is the lot of the generation of grandparents. Again, many parents have their married children living with them. This causes the strains and tensions which this kind of existence brings to so many families in our society, and I have already described the plight of the youngsters themselves. The words in the Gracious Speech will not be sufficient. Far too often Governments talk about housing as an important   social need and pay lip-service to their intentions to provide it. I shall not be satisfied with my term in the House until I have seen the Government put as their top priority the provision of homes for all who need them. If we fail in this we shall deserve the rejection of those people who are so cynical about politicians today. I believe that if we have the will we shall provide the homes for all who need them.
