gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House, this being my maiden speech. I crave it for a two-fold reason, because I am going to raise a question that is little understood in the politics of this House. Before doing so, I was cautious enough to take advice, as a new Member, whether I should be strictly in Order in doing so and was advised to go ahead, because, although it was rather an abstruse and not altogether understood subject, I was told it would receive consideration and even attention from all the hon. Members of this Assembly. I listened carefully on Monday to the whole Debate on foreign affairs and today I have listened to the Debate on the Charter. The shadow of the atomic bomb seems to be hovering over the House in such a way that we seem to have raised a Frankenstein monster by our scientific improvements and do not know how to bury him. Our bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki made the whole world shudder. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden) said that this was our last chance. The right hon. Gentleman the  Foreign Secretary gave us such a horrible picture of Europe that he did not seem even to give us a last chance. Next time, there will not be a warning. Unless something is done now, a fleet of rockets will come over laden with these atomic bombs, and the country will be wiped out before knowing that it is even being threatened. It is quite true that the Prime Minister has given us the assurance that the atomic bomb is to be controlled, yet, on Sunday in the Press, we read that the Polish Government have decided to raise a fund for atomic research. The Poles have never been lacking in scientists and mathematicians from the early days of science. They produced Copernicus, and, right up to modern times, have produced scientists without whose work the atomic bomb would not have been possible. I am speaking particularly of Madame Curio. After the last war we had the League of Nations, and we all believed and felt that we were really approaching the end of war. For years we believed in that. The greater part of my life has been spent going from one country to another, and from one continent to another, and I know that, in those first years of the twenties, people did believe that we were going to outlaw war. Now, we are up against a similar problem, and we have this Charter in front of us. Is it going to satisfy our requirements? How are we to get universal peace by means of a Charter? Or is some nation going to find out some unknown explosive and blow the Charter to pieces, in the same way as Hitler blew the League of Nations to pieces? If we deserve peace, in present circumstances, the Charter may be a beginning, but we shall have to go much further than that. Unless we all work together for the benefit of mankind and for the elevation of the human race, we shall not be able to defend ourselves against the possibility of a new attack. If we throw away the ideas of nationhood and national aspiration, and exert all our exertions and efforts for the benefit of mankind, then the atomic bomb will be useless, because it will not be necessary. Unless we do that very soon, in 20, 30, 40 or 50 years, when some national aspiration intervenes, we are going to be faced with terrible consequences, of which we have no idea now, because the atomic bomb is not the last word in   dreadful explosives. It is only the first word in a new era of abominable things. We cannot realise these common aspirations towards a total human effort without having the medium and the instruments by which we can come to an understanding. The basis of common interest is common understanding, and the instrument of a common understanding is a common language. In the past, other thinkers have produced what was known as an international language called Esperanto, but what is wanted is not an artificial language, but an existing living language, such as English itself might be, which could be spread through the world and become the common medium of common understanding. To give an example of the binding power of language, I take this Chamber. We have here in this Chamber the English and the Welsh. [An Hon. Member: ""And the Scots.""] I happen to hail from Wales, and I am just taking these two, because they are very good examples for my purpose. We do not feel any differently because we come from Wales. Our people are loyal, not to Wales, but to Britain, and all our people are striving for the welfare of Britain. We have a common language, and yet there is a lot of' difference, ethnologically, between an Englishman and a Welshman—as much difference as between an Englishman and a Russian. It is language which binds us, and it is language which separates the nations of Europe. In the United States they have all nationalities working together for the welfare of that great nation. All are bound together by a common language. They totally forgot the ancestral troubles in the Europe which they left behind them. Surely, if the United States can do it, the people of Europe could also do it if they had the benefit of a common language binding them together. Nothing else separates the nations of Europe but language. Language builds the frontiers, and the frontiers build the problems. As an international language—and I know six languages fluently, and can work in a great many more, so that I can speak on this subject—English is very simple, with very few inflections. It has few words of more than four syllables, and is very easy in pronunciation. The difficulty is that the spelling does not conform to the pronunciation. If we could  reform the spelling of the English language we could have the ideal international language. Curiously enough, only yesterday I was talking to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Warwick and Leamington, who assured me that the English language was spreading quite rapidly. If the rest of the world would absorb the English language—it must be done by absorption and not by compulsion—we would make a big stride towards universal understanding. With this in mind, I approached the Council of the University of London some time ago, and they sent a delegation to see me and asked me to explain the whole procedure. The delegation reported back to the Council. I had a second interview with the delegation, and they told me that they would view with favour the establishment of a Chair of Philology with this purpose in view, if money could be found for this object. I understand that, under the will of Sir George Hunter, there is £30,000 waiting for something of this description—what he called simplified English or simplified spelling. I would willingly give £5,000 to such an object. That leaves £25,000 to be found. We could find £500,000,000 in the stress of war for destruction, because, say what you will and think of it as you will, that money was spent purely for destruction. If we could find £500,000,000 for destruction, surely the Government could come forward with £25,000 for something which might lead us to a new civilisation, a new understanding of civilisation, and a new medium of common understanding? I would not have ventured to broach this subject had not a speech on it been made by the former Prime Minister, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill). He favoured and fostered Basic English. Nobody knows more about this than I do, because I actually wrote a work in a limited number of words. I have the book here. There is no difficulty; you have to learn how to manipulate the words you use. It is not, however, a restricted number of words that is wanted, but English in all its full beauty, richness and magnificence. We do not want to curtail the language but to give it all our great ideals. If the English language were spread to the far ends of the earth, even the beggars would use it as their language. I can, on the average, teach a person to speak   English fluently in two to three months. [An Hon. Member: ""A Yorkshire man?""] Yes, a Yorkshire man. I even went to the extreme—this is my maiden speech, and hon. Members must not interrupt—I even went to the extreme of teaching a deaf and dumb Spaniard to speak English. [Laughter.] Perhaps hon. Members do not know, but anybody born with a tongue in his mouth can speak. I was successful in teaching this man to speak a fair amount of English, when he could not talk in his own tongue. I submit that an addition to the Charter should be accepted to the effect that we agree with this proposition, that the University of London, in the very heart of the Empire and Commonwealth, should found this Chair. It is only a matter of finding £25,000 for the welfare of future civilisation. It is the only alternative we have to the atomic bomb. It is the only alternative we have to destruction. If we can afford £500,000,000 for extermination, surely we can afford £25,000 for this, even if it is only an experiment; it might lead to the definite solution of the troubles of the world.
