gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to have the opportunity of making my first speech to this House, because, if I do not make it soon, I shall soon be the only hon. Member left who has still to make a maiden speech. I have chosen this opportunity because I want to speak about my concern for the future of the grammar schools. I may be forgiven for making reference to my own constituency. I represent a constituency which has a very enviable reputation in the matter of education. It must be 40 years since that noble woman Margaret Macmillan started her experiments in nursery school education in Bradford, and after them came the special schools, schools for the myopic, schools for the blind and open-air classes. All these were experimental, and I am not aware that they had been the subject of experiments until Margaret Macmillan started her drive for special schools. In 1919, Bradford undertook something which was at that time almost revolutionary—free secondary education—and the results were as good as those who promoted it expected them to be. It fulfilled the highest hopes of those educationists who believed that free secondary education was the right policy for Bradford, and, indeed, for the rest of the country. That position obtained until 1931, when the economy axe came down and destroyed not only that, but a good  many other fine things in our national life. During this period of free secondary education in Bradford, remarkable things happened for the children who were enabled to have such fine opportunities. They were given chances which, up to then, had only been dreamed of, and, every year, valuable State scholarships were awarded to the children of the poorer paid wage-earners, and, every year, scholarships taking them to the older universities, as well as to other universities, were awarded to children. The professions—teaching, architecture, the Church, the law—and even the wool trade all claimed the well-educated children. Now, we are told that we are entering upon a new era when there is to be free secondary education for all, that the experiment that was made in Bradford is to be extended and that we are to have full, free secondary education. We thought that the new Act would give us free secondary education, but I want to submit that what we have got is not secondary education, in the sense in which it was understood at the times to which I have been referring—the days of the Bradford experiment. It is not secondary education of that quality, but something much less good. When this Bill was debated, those who followed it carefully were convinced that something good, fine and splendid would come at last for the children of Britain. It has been a tremendous disappointment to find, as the Act is now taking shape and the Regulations are being applied, that something much less good is coming out of it. I consider that the people have been fooled. They expected the kind of secondary education with which they have always been familiar, but now there have been clamped down—and I think ""clamped down"" is the right term—on all the State schools in this country a set of restrictions and degradations which have made of this Act the apotheosis of mediocrity, because these restrictions have deprived the grammar schools, which have done such excellent work, of that freedom, of that variety and of the chances to experiment which have made them so good in the past. We have now got what is called a grammar school dispute. I notice that some of my hon. Friends are a little impatient of the   things I am saying. I think they are impatient with the idea that there is a grammar school dispute, but it is not the slightest use shutting our eyes to it. It is there, and one can read in ""The Times Educational Supplement"" week after week letters from fine educationists, men and women with years of experience in our secondary schools and grammar schools, and who helped to build them up, who are only too acutely aware of what is happening under these new restrictive Regulations. Let me go back a moment. What is the purpose behind these Regulations? I think the impatience of hon. Members behind me may be because they do not fully appreciate the purpose of the Regulations. What we have got now is class education of a very bad type, and I would like to give the House some reasons why I think it is class education. It was discovered in the early part of the war that there were serious gaps in our educational system. It was discovered, for instance, that there was a dearth of young people who could work with precision tools or who could read Government instructions understandingly. In short, there was a scarcity of people who had accurate English and good mathematics. The same problem confronted the Royal Air Force and, with commendable foresight, they created the A.T.C. Under the attractive guise of calculation and navigation, they managed to bring up ex-elementary school boys of 15 plus to something approaching the grammar school fourth form boy. About four years ago, I read a pamphlet issued by Conservative Party headquarters, which was purely on education, and the purport of which was—I am not quoting, but merely giving my impression of it—that the elementary schools were not good enough for technical industry and that the grammar schools were producing a type which was too academic. I may have a suspicious mind, but I took that to mean that, in the opinion of some people, there was not a sufficient supply of those who would enter industry but there was too much competition for the higher professional posts, and some of the products of our public schools were having to sell motor cars or go farming in the wide open spaces. Something clearly had to be done about it, and the new Education Act was the solution, which was grasped at very willingly. It is in the working out of this Act, far more than the Act itself, where our perturbation comes in. I can only say to the Minister of Education, and I am not offering destructive criticism, that, when the people of this country sent this Government to power, they did not send a Government that was to widen the gulf between the ""haves"" and the ""have-nots"" and the privileged and the unprivileged. They sent a Government to power that would approach this question of education in a Socialist way, that would narrow the gulf and not widen it. The Regulations, as they are now being worked out, have widened it until the gulf is wider than ever it has been before. Direct grant schools, to my mind, are not only no solution, but are an aggravation of the problem. I want to see the Government tackling this problem boldly. I consider that the right hon. Lady the Minister of Education has an opportunity to turn what, after all, is a Conservative Education Act into something that will be very much better. We must not forget that, although the Bill was brought in under the Coalition Government, that Government had an overwhelming Conservative majority. I am never one to under-estimate the ability of my opponents, and I have no reason to underestimate the ability of the Minister of Education in the last Government, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler). The right hon. Lady has the chance to make this Act, which was brought in under those circumstances, into something fine and splendid which will probably make her name remembered in the annals of English education.
