gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have been the subject of some mild but irritating criticism by virtue of the fact that I am regarded in some quarters as one of the last of the recently elected hon. Members to make a maiden speech. I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, and hon. and right hon. Members, that my tardiness in addressing the House for the first time is in no way due to the fact that I can be regarded as inarticulate. On the contrary, the electors in my constituency of Shettleston, who are among the most intelligent and enlightened in the country, have traditionally elected Members who have been outspoken in their advocacy of a way and standard of life based on humanistic principles. I recall the long and valuable services rendered in the House and to the country by the late John Wheatley, who became an outstanding Minister of Health, and the contribution made by my immediate predecessor, John McGovern. Both were turbulent and articulate and, while I may have passed the age for turbulence, I sincerely hope that I shall be able to discharge the trust placed in me by my constituents by serving them as faithfully and with the same forcefulness and wisdom as did my distinguished predecessors. I assure the House that the only reason for my delay in intervening in debate has been occasioned by my desire to do so on a subject of which I have some knowledge and experience. I served for twenty-eight years as a member of Glasgow Corporation representing part of my present constituency, and two weeks ago I resigned after two years of office from the high and honoured position of Lord Provost of Glasgow. I might remind hon. Members who represent English constituencies that the nearest approach to a lord provost of a Scottish city is a lord mayor. As lord provost I had at my disposal a fund from which I could disburse financial help to applicants within the city. In the course of my two years of office I received hundreds and hundreds of such applications, the majority of them from old-age pensioners. Before  I made a decision, each case was examined by an experienced member of our health and welfare department by means of a personal call. The human tragedies of malnutrition and misery revealed in the case histories saddened me as they would have saddened every hon. Member. They disclosed the gross inadequacy of the pittance doled out under the euphemistic term ""retirement pension"". What purpose is the retirement or old-age pension supposed to serve? Basically, it should be a provision for old age, providing the recipient with a reasonable standard of living free from anxiety and degradation. But does it achieve this purpose? In the majority of cases it certainly does not. I crave the indulgence of the House to quote only one household budget, and not by any means the worst, which came under my notice during the period to which I have referred. A couple, both over 70, have a 'budget as follows: rent and rates, 7s. 6d., two bags of coal, 16s. 4d., gas, 7s., electricity, 1s., papers, 3s. 6d., church contribution, 1s., death insurance, 3s., sugar, 2s. 6d., tea, 3s., eggs, 3s. 6d., meat, 8s., fish, 4s., bacon, 2s. 6d., potatoes, 2s. 6d., vegetables, 2s., fruit— they were on a special diet—5s. 6d., cheese, 2s., milk, 6s. 6½d., butter, 2s. 10d., bread, scones and biscuits, 6s., shoe repairs and replacements, 2s. 6d., laundry, 2s., sundries, 2s. 6d., transport, 5s., cleaning windows and stairs, 3s. This is a total of £5 4s. 8½d. There is no allowance for amusement or for membership of an old-age pensioners' club, and nothing to provide for an outting. Yet with that total expenditure no one would say that they were living on the standards of the Ritz. It would be true to say that daily thousands upon thousands of people spend more on one meal than this family spent in a whole week on their budget, and that is usually done on an expense account. Their total income, including a supplementation of 14s., is £4 14s. How do they manage? It is by making an application to a charitable organisation or to funds such as were at my disposal. They do not pay the rent. They find that it is essential that they should eat. At the end of the week they say they have nothing left for the rent and they   apply for help from the funds I have mentioned. When things get too bad and they get no relief from funds of that character, they do a bit of starving and dieting for weeks until they are able to resume what one can only describe as the bare minimum of subsistence. Health visitors have often reported to me that they have witnessed case after case of old-age pensioners in the wintertime sitting with their overcoats on in front of the fireplace with the fire not lit because they were waiting for the evening when it would be colder before lighting it. I know that I shall be told that with supplementation they could get an extra 3s. 6d. a week if the house is damp, but that would be cut off from March to October. This extra 3s. 6d. to buy an extra half bag of coal is supposed to keep body and soul together. Welfare visitors have also reported that the diet was wholly unsuited to these old-age pensioners, but they were unable to recommend a diet that would be suitable for their physical needs because they knew that these old people could not afford to buy those foods. I know that they can apply for a supplementary allowance, but the hon. Member for Basingstoke (Mr. Denzil Freeth) must remember that people do not live on or eat percentages. They eat food. ""Supplementation"" is a word which the hon. Member admits has not reached everybody's ear and I will tell him why. I am sorry if I am being controversial but I must remind the hon. Member that he said that even if he had the wherewithal he would not be able to improve on the diet which I mentioned; he would only strive to maintain it. My experience is that this method of supplementation is not the answer to the plight of these people. It is estimated that there are 100,000 cases in Glasgow and its environs. I concede that it is impossible to obtain an exact figure, because the figures are not prepared on a regional but on a national basis. Out of that number—and this is an accurate figure—23,000 are in receipt of varying sums of supplementation. It is confidentially estimated that three out of five old-age pensioners could apply for and receive supplementation, but they do not. In nine months I was able to obtain in 125 cases some little amelioration of their  plight by referring the cases to the National Assistance Board. There are two reasons why these honest, decent people do not apply. One is ignorance of their right to do so and the other is their independence of spirit. Let me deal with the first point. It is not the practice of the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance, when granting a retirement pension to indicate that if recipients find the pension inadequate for their meagre needs, they may apply for supplementation. It is true that the National Assistance Board has issued leaflets, but—and here I come to the second of the two reasons—people still refuse to have the stigma of public assistance attaching to them. As the hon. Member for Basingstoke said, we now use the term ""supplementation"". The whole set-up, however, is still that of the poor law. People have to apply to the area officer of the National Assistance Board. They are told that the Board's officer will call upon them and ask for particulars of their circumstances. It is not that they have anything to hide, but they have some pride left and they do not like investigators. The hon. Member for Basingstoke said that if we increased old-age pensions, we would also have to meet the needs of those who are not in receipt of old-age pensions: namely, people receiving benefit from the National Assistance Board. Why is it that a respected citizen who has worked all his life and contributed for a retirement pension ends up, if he is a married man, with £4 a week, as against the National Assistance Board allowance in similar circumstances to a possible ne'er-do-well who has never worked in his life of £4 5s. a week? We already have this difference between the two sets of people. Why must so many old-age pensioners be dependent on public subscription for their Christmas dinner and an annual outing? I wish here to pay tribute to those who give so open-handedly and unstintingly to bring a little pleasure and and happiness into the lives of people who are ashamed to be beggars. This generosity renews one's pride and faith in the great and essential goodness of humanity. Again I ask, however, is this the only way? The care of our fellow human beings in distress is everybody's business. In the current issue of Barclays Bank Review, under the heading ""Britain the Good Neighbour,"" there is an article, from which I quote: In the Western industrialised countries, and certainly in Britain, we have solved the problem of the ' submerged tenth ', the unfortunates who lived beneath reasonable standards of well-being. My experience has shown me that this claim is false for the majority of our old-age pensioners. Their case histories are not the hall-mark of a humane civilisation. This morning, every Member of the House shared the regret of the Prime Minister at the failure of the Summit talks to get started, their purpose being to maintain peace and happiness for people throughout the world. To bring a little more happiness into the lives of our old-age pensioners and the poorer sections of the community does not require a Summit Conference. It can be dealt with here and now, in the House of Commons, by the Government. The Government have a duty to pay heed to, and to act upon, the old-age pensioner's cry from the heart, ""Forget me not in my old age.""
