gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for this opportunity to make my maiden speech so early in the life of this new Parliament. I have the honour to represent Sutton and Cheam, which is a constituency fairly well known throughout the length and breadth of the land, and which is about 13 miles from Westminster. It is on the ring of outer London and on the fringes of Surrey. It is a compact constituency with about 61,000 electors. We were privileged to have as our Member of Parliament for nigh on 20 years the late Sir Richard Sharpies, and I am sure that hon. Members were as saddened as we were in Sutton and Cheam when he was assassinated last year so early in his new appointment. He is still mourned and held in deep regard and high affection throughout Sutton and Cheam. My most immediate predecessor achieved a notable and remarkable by-election victory at. I hasten to add, my expense in December 1972, but I also hasten to reassure the House that it is not my intention to pursue his suggestion that we should bridge and dam the English Channel and divert shipping through other channels. In Sutton, we believe that we are adapting to the needs and requirements of a commuter constituency. We believe, too, that we are retaining the identity of the constituency, which we have long held to be of great importance. During the General Election I was greatly impressed by the large number of my constituents who expressed grave disquiet over education throughout the country. My impression was that nearly all my constituents were anxious that education should cease to be a party political football which has so consistently been kicked about during the last 10 to 15 years. Indeed, they were all anxious that the best of what we had should be preserved and that the rest of the schools should be brought up to the required standard. It is clear that education has gone through a changing and difficult pattern, and through a diffi-  cult decade. I believe that the nation is crying out loud and clear for some stability in the structure of secondary education. I urge the Secretary of State for Education and Science, for whom I have had the greatest regard and utmost respect ever since we contested East Ham, North as it was in the hot summer of 1970, to ensure that any future schemes for the reorganisation of secondary education are accepted only if they offer obvious advantages over existing systems. At all costs we must avoid creating a comprehensive school where the buildings are about half a mile apart. We must bear in mind the size of the schools and achieve the right optimum number so that the pupil-staff relationship can be excellent. Now that we are in the year when the raising of the school leaving age has finally arrived we find that the 16-yearolds are with us for the first time, and I think that we have to concentrate and see how effectively we can make this work to the benefit of the school in general. My own view is that it is a mistake to assume that all 15- and 16-year olds will benefit from a further year in an academic environment. Indeed, I understand that many schools have already recognised this problem and are introducing a multitude of technical courses—car maintenance, woodwork, metalwork and building—to non-examination level. Surely these youngsters would be better employed and happier in themselves in commencing some form of apprenticeship. I therefore suggest that the right hon. Gentleman must give careful consideration to a scheme whereby the final year in education can be replaced in certain circumstances by a recognised apprenticeship scheme. The advantages of that are many. First, the reluctant classroom pupil would benefit from an attractive alternative. Secondly, young people who might otherwise not have considered craft training might be encouraged to do so. Thirdly, some of the pressure will be lifted from the overstretched teaching staff, particularly in the Greater London area. In Sutton and Cheam, as in so many other places, we have parents who have disabled children. In recent years, a start has been made to provide schools which are specially equipped for the disable and handicapped child, and I urge   the right hon. Gentleman to see how he can expand and improve this facility. It is important that this sector is understood. All this will, of course, cost a lot more money, and I hope that the Secretary of State will bear in mind that the retention of the private sector enables the taxpayers' money to be spent in other areas of weakness. Nursery education is an area of weakness. Much has been done, but much still needs to be done in this direction, particularly in large towns, densely populated cities and overcrowded suburbs. All have a need for extended nursery education. Above all, I hope that the Secretary of State will not remove the fundamental right and the intended role of local government by taking away from local education committees their right to create and plan their own education policies. I hope that education can become a nonpolitical issue, but that can happen only with toleration and understanding. If the Secretary of State can resolve the worries and difficulties confronting parents and staff he will, over the course of this Parliament, earn their total admiration, and he will thoroughly deserve the gratitude and good will of both sides of the House.
