gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is another maiden speech. The custom is for an hon. Member on his debut to make a preamble asking for the indulgence of the House. I should rather like to take this opportunity of thanking the House for the indulgence it has shown to many new hon. Members so far. I hope that it will continue to show indulgence for the next few minutes. It is true that a new Member speaking from this side carries away with him the image of those sitting on the Opposition benches. Therefore, my thanks are particularly due tor the expressions of indulgence, tolerance and patience which we watch on the faces of hon. Members opposite as we make our maiden speeches. I have the great honour to represent the Banbury division of Oxfordshire. Many hon. Members will no doubt think of my constituency as one of rolling countryside and very pleasant Cotswold stone villages. In terms of population, it is about 60 per cent. industrial and about 15 per cent. agricultural, so that the Free Trade Association comes into it on both sides. For example, in Banbury itself we have the Great Northern Aluminium Works and, further south, near Oxford City, live many of those who work at the Pressed Steel works and the British Motor Corporation works. They work outside my constituency, but  sleep in it. Further to the west, at Witney, we have, as has the hon. Member for Willesden, East (Mr. Skeet), the firm of Smith's. In his constituency he has Smith's Clocks, and in mine we have the same Smith's, which is engaged in work for the motor car industry. We therefore have a fair interest in the Free Trade Association. Among the 15 per cent. farming population there is, of course, a great number of pig farmers, but while the pig farmers have made their protests to me, there have been no comments from the industrial side; and, in any case, I think that the pigs have had a fair ration, if I may call it that, of debate in this House, so I do not propose to talk about them now. I want to deal with only one aspect of the Free Trade Association. Many speeches have been made and many articles have been written referring to a degree of alarm at the danger that failure to bridge the gap between the Common Market and the Free Trade Association will lead to a political division of Western Europe. The right hon. Member for Bassetlaw (Mr. Bellenger) and the hon. Member for Loughborough (Mr. Cronin) both mentioned this. Without wishing to be contentious in my maiden speech, I want to question that theory and to ask how far the political division of Western Europe is possible in the present context of politics; and, also, to ask whether, in fact,we are not underlining a little too heavily this fear of political division in Western Europe. Before the war we certainly had a political division of Europe, thanks to Hitler and Mussolini. who approached the whole way of life in a manner that we could not accept. That caused a political division. Post-war, we have a political division of Europe with the Iron Curtain. That is a political division. But I cannot conceive of a political division of Europe being due to the fact that we have a separate Common Market and Free Trade Association. If that is so, we might, perhaps, stop using this fear of the political division of Europe as one of the pillars for the bridge that we are trying to construct between the two trading areas. I think that we have perfectly honest and genuine reasons for trying in the Free Trade Association to ""cosy up,"" as it   were, to the Common Market. We have a fear that if we do not do that we will lose our export markets in the Common Market countries. That, in turn, could produce unemployment here. That is a very sound reason for wanting a bridge between the two trading areas. Again, we want to be quite certain that from those exports we generate enough capital here to pass it out to the Commonwealth and to the under-developed countries. Those are good reasons; and better than the somewhat doubtful reason of fear of the political division of Europe. Europe, as I see it, is so interwoven these days that it will be very difficult to divide Western Europe in the former context unless political philosophies are altered, as they were by Hitler and Mussolini. Let us examine this question for a moment. The first thing is that, broadly, we in Western Europe have common ideals about freedom, and we hate all dictatorship. Then, we have the United Nations, which we have joined, where very often the countries of Western Europe act in concert with one another. We have the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, with common defence and integrated common structures. It is under stresses and strains at the moment, but I think that those may be overcome. Next, we have Western European Union, where we sit with the six members of the Common Market. That is a bridge. We have the Council of Europe, where the countries of the Free Trade Association and of the Common Market are mixed up. That is another bridge. There is the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation, which has already been referred to-both the Free Trade Association and the Common Market countries are in that. In finance, we have the European monetary area and the International Monetary Fund. The threads go back, criss-crossing all the time to keep Western Europe fairly well welded together. In addition, we have the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. All those are bridges, but running through the whole theme is the thread of American co-operation, which is one of the most useful bridges that we can use to try to get some agreement between the Free Trade Association and the Common Market. We must now go out  positively to encourage America to remain in Europe, and not to start withdrawing to America. As has been mentioned by the hon. Member for Birmingham, Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins), with America's present balance-of-payments deficits, that might be a danger. In trade—the very subject of this debate—we have great companies like Shell and Unilever's spanning both trading areas, and I see in The Times today that the British and French aircraft industries are to get together in the production of modern aircraft and guided missiles. Therefore, in trade, we have the bridge working. Again, our diplomacy continually works towards that end. Disarmament talks join us together, and, indeed, the summit talks themselves show that there is a vital common interest where we have the Free Trade Association and the Common Market countries all working together to the same end. There are difficulties in Europe; sometimes they are great, sometimes they are small. There will always be difficulties in Europe, but I believe that the political difficulties we have today are not caused in any significant way by the Common Market. Even if, in the event, there is political integration in the Common Market, with their own Parliament, I do not think that that closer political integration necessarily spells a division of Europe. After all, we may see common markets arising in other parts of the world. The Arabs may have a common market, the countries of South-East Asia may have one, and there may be a common market in Latin America. We cannot say of each, as it emerges, that there will be a division in the world, otherwise the world would be hopelessly divided. That being so, I conclude by asking that we should not get too alarmed about this threat of a political division in Europe. I do not think that it is quite so real as many people make it out to be, but by tending to talk too much about it we tend to make it greater than it really is.
