gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am certain that I shall have from hon. and right hon. Members on both sides of the Committee the indulgence granted on occasions such as this. At the outset, I pay a tribute to my predecessor   as Member for Swansea, East, the late Mr. D. L. Mort. As a member of the British Iron and Steel and Kindred Trades Association, he had an expert knowledge of industrial matters. I, as a member of the parent engineering industry, will endeavour to attain his high level. In general matters, he gave of his talents and time in rendering good service to Swansea, East in particular and to the town of Swansea as a whole. I count it an honourable privilege to succeed Mr. Mort as Member for Swansea, East. I direct the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the section of his Budget speech which in the OFFICIAL REPORT is headed, ""Regional Problems"". In this, the right hon. Gentleman speaks of the problem of clearing derelict sites and rehabilitating them, for which purpose the ceiling of grant provision is raised from 50–75 per cent. to 85–95 per cent. for all tenders received and approved in the next nine months. In the latest test of public feeling in Swansea, this was a by-election issue, and I therefore pose the problem of Swansea to illustrate what I suggest. Within the last few weeks, the President of the Board of Trade was visited by a deputation from Swansea headed by his worship the mayor. This deputation wanted Swansea to be designated as an area requiring special attention because of unemployment. With particular reference to the problems described in the section of the Budget statement headed ""Regional Problems"", I ask that the term ""development districts"" be enlarged to read, ""areas requiring special attention because of unemployment"". The problem in Swansea is that insufficient industry is located within the town. The problem is intensified now, and has been for many years, by the continued flight of industry from Swansea. The recent closure of a constructional engineering firm emphasised this fact sharply. Among the many which have gone from Swansea are chemical works, steel tube works, copper works and smelting works. Moreover, in this great seaport where there were once seven dry docks there is now only one. Therefore, in the matter of derelict sites, Swansea deserves great attention. In the Morriston area there is a large site near which are to be found all the services which could readily be made  available if the site were cleared, rehabilitated and made attractive to industry. The Swansea Borough Corporation's Parliamentary committee, headed by a distinguished former Member of the House, Alderman Percy Morris, has been in close touch with the Board of Trade on this matter. The trouble in Morriston has been made acute by the severe contraction of the tinplate industry. Men have been idle in Morriston since 1958, and there is little hope of alternative employment. The rehabilitation of a site such as the one I have mentioned would render a great service and provide hope for the future. The Minister for Welsh Affairs will know that, when he visits Swansea and proceeds from Llansamlet to Landore, he passes through barren wastes where industry once fluorished. In these wastes there are derelict sites in which buildings stand like tombstones in an industrial graveyard. The cost of rehabilitating such areas in order to make them attractive to industry would be much too heavy a financial burden for the Borough of Swansea to bear. For this area, which was once the metallurgical centre of the world, I make the plea that the grant should be 100 per cent. in order that its derelict sites may be rehabilitated and made as attractive to industry as possible. If such a proposal were put into effect, a great deal of employment would be created. There are, in my view, three grounds for what I regard as this well justified proposal. First, industry attracted to Swansea would provide openings for adult labour displaced by the contraction of the older declining industries. Since 1951, Wales has lost 100,000 jobs. Many of the adult male workers displaced from employment in Swansea have little or no hope of securing work at all. Second—this is important for the future not only of Swansea and Wales but of the British nation as a whole—there is the need to provide opportunities for school leavers. In Swansea now, the position of boys wishing to secure apprenticeships is acutely difficult. In the last full year's report of the Youth Employment Committee, it was said that only 179 boys who had left school during the year had been placed in apprenticeships, representing only 17 per cent. of the total; and for girls the situation was much more difficult. I believe that, if   young people are to be given the opportunity to carve out the careers of their choice, there must be openings for them in places such as Swansea. If the derelict sites were levelled and made attractive, there would be brought to the area the light and diversified industries which would give them the opportunity to carve out their own careers instead of emigrating, as they will otherwise do, to London, Slough and Birmingham. The young people of my constituency want to set down their roots in their own area and bring up their families there, and it is right that they should. Third, the improvement for which I ask would be of great advantage to the rate yield of the borough and would make possible the maintenance and improvement of essential services in Swansea. Only sheer prudence in severely cutting the estimates has enabled Swansea Borough Corporation to peg the rate for this year at 9s. 4d. on the new valuations. The Corporation in its budget for 1963 had to cut the estimates by, in round figures, £180,000, of which £170,000 would have accrued from the rate yield. If one adds to this the cut in education estimates of £150,000 made in September last year, one sees that it is quite impossible for the Borough of Swansea to provide any capital for the clearance of derelict areas, even with a grant in aid to the extent of 95 per cent. This is why I say that the ceiling should be raised to 100 per cent. At present, the Llansamlet and Landore area enjoys everything which a good industrialist would like to find. There is a railway running through the centre of it. There is a fine port with berthage for 70 ships. I was interested in what was said by the right hon. and learned Member for Wirral (Mr. Selwyn Lloyd) when he spoke about the modernisation of ports. Swansea, already efficient, would certainly welcome any help in making itself a 100 per cent. modern and efficient port. In addition to the levelling and clearing, there is the problem of a road link so that goods may be sent to the points of distribution from the point of manufacture, and this would be encompassed by the 100 per cent. grant which I have proposed. I regard this as a special local authority project and I believe that it should receive special consideration. A  project such as this would help to cushion the borough in times of adversity and against unemployment. It would give hope, encouragement and a sense of aspiration to the school leavers of the future. It would help immeasurably in strengthening the economy of Swansea and by so doing would add materially to the prosperity of Wales. In time, the permeating effects would be of beneficial and lasting value to the nation.
