gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Speaker, it is extremely difficult to make a non-controversial speech about such a controversial part of the world as the Middle East. If I should stray and make some remarks that might be thought controversial, I hope the House will extend to me the indulgence which is usual when  hon. Members speak in the House for the first time. I thought that the Minister of State made clear the broad lines of our policy. I was especially glad to hear him say that we should support our friends in the Middle East. I feel, however, that there is still a certain amount of confusion about what is actually going on in Jordan today. Like many other hon. Members on both sides of the House, I was shocked by the abrupt and discourteous way in which General Glubb was dismissed by the King of Jordan after so many years of loyal service to the Hashemite kingdom, but I was not in the least surprised. I think that many of us saw some such event coming. We ought to ask ourselves whether the hand that removed General Glubb was the same hand that killed or organised the killing of King Abdullah in one of the most holy places of the Arab world. Was it perhaps the same hand that pushed out King Farouk and brought Nasser to power or, at least, was behind that coup d'etat? Even if it was not perhaps the same hand, it might well have been. And the same forces that brought Colonel Shishakli to power in Damascus at about that time. I wonder whether that hand belonged to the Mufti of Jerusalem or at least one of his henchmen. We do not yet know whether the young King of Jordan took the steps he did under compulsion from a group of free officers who delivered an ultimatum to him that he must act in this manner, or whether it was upon his own initiative that the King took this action to forestall such an ultimatum. Perhaps we shall know in a few weeks' time. We ought also to ask ourselves what have been the roles of Egypt and Colonel Nasser during these last few days in Amman. Colonel Nasser has openly said that he wishes to have a unified Arab command of which the Arab Legion will form part; and up his sleeve, he has in Cairo an extremely able, potential Arab Legion commander. In any event, these happenings in Jordan are a grave blow to British prestige. This blow to our prestige has been underlined by events that followed in the Bahrein area which we thought we had under complete control. King Hussein and the Jordan Government have said that they desire to continue their friendship with us and to continue the Treaty and we should heartily welcome these statements. The reasons, however, that the King and the Jordan Government have given for their dismissal of Glubb Pasha give cause for grave disquiet and I fully agreed with the Leader of the Opposition when he voiced the anxiety that the policy of the Jordan armed forces and of the Jordan Government may become increasingly hostile to Israel. Indeed, they have already made their intentions towards Israel clear when they said that their reason for dismissing General Glubb was that he did not follow a policy sufficiently active or hostile to Israel. That was also one of the reasons why King Abdullah was killed. Now there is news that they want recruits for the Arab Legion from the West bank of the Jordan. One can imagine what would be the feelings of these new recruits from the West bank who, if they were in the Arab Legion, looked from their outposts across the frontier at their own villages and farms on the other side. One can imagine the temptation it would be for them to commit raids across the frontier. So I believe there is grave danger of increased hostilities along that frontier. More frontier incidents could lead to fighting between Israel and Jordan—two States of which this country is the parent. We founded Jordan, and in the founding of Israel my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Sir W. Churchill) played a prominent part. How can we say that we are not responsible for what happens between those two countries when we created both? Indeed, in addition, should there be hostilities between those two countries I believe we shall have an extension of the conflict and that the great Powers will be dragged in too. I believe that we still have the power, the right and such great interests in the Middle East which allow us to play if not an overwhelming role, at least a decisive rôle in determining what will happen in that area. We have a base in Cyprus, a Colony at Aden and treaties with the sheikhs along the Persian Gulf. We also have air arrangements with Iraq, and the Bagdad Pact and so on. We still have tremendous power in the Middle East.  We certainly have the interest of our own future, staked in the Middle East through its oil, and strategic position lying across our communications with the Commonwealth. I feel that we have a moral duty as well as power to play the decisive, although not the unique rôle in the Middle East. The Prime Minister's speech at the Guildhall, which has been deeply misunderstood, was an effort by the Prime Minister to put vital questions to these people in the Middle East. It was an initiative to make them see what is happening in their own part of the world. That is the kind of courageous leadership which this country should give. The little country of Jordan, which is our ally, holds a strategic position in the Middle East, lying between Egypt and Iraq, the two great centres of the Arab world, and it also possesses the finest Arab military force in the world. The Daily Express wishes us to cut our losses in Jordan and withdraw the subsidy, but I believe that that would be a great error on our part. Jordan itself is not a viable country and Egypt or Saudi Arabia would get control of the Legion, or it might lead to the partition of Jordan. There are others who believe that we should have what is called a firm policy. But I believe it is possible to have a firm policy only if we have an Anglo-American policy; otherwise such a move might create trouble rather than anything else. The Leader of the Opposition put his finger on one of the main difficulties when he said that we must put a stop to the oil war which is now going on in the Middle East, and talk with the Americans to that end. At present, unless we can get a joint Anglo-American policy, the confusion will increase and also the Russian intervention will increase to such an extent that whether we ask the Russians to come into the Middle East at the conference table or not, they will in fact be in there. As my right hon. Friend the Minister of State said, we should stand squarely behind the Tripartite Declaration. I am glad that my right hon. Friend said that in Washington talks are going on to see what measures should he taken, and I hope that in those talks there will be discussions with the general staffs of Jordan and Israel about the military measures to be taken, if the situation makes them necessary. There   might also be discussions with the Egyptian Government about the possibility of reactivating the Suez base, if there is a further worsening of the position. I also very strongly support my right hon. Friend's view that we must stand squarely behind the Bagdad Pact. That is absolutely vital at this stage, and in the future, for both defensive and economic reasons. So it is with our commitments in the Persian Gulf. At the same time we should firmly ask our American friends—and the Prime Minister has great influence with the Americans—to advise the Saudi Arabian Government not to use the power and the money they get from their oil royalties in such an irresponsible way. We can point with a certain amount of satisfaction to the way we have advised the sheikhs in the Persian Gulf how to spend the money they get from oil royalties. I have already taken too much time in this debate and, as a maiden speaker, I do not wish to continue for too long. But, before concluding, I should like to say a few words about the Arab peoples. The Arabs are awakening. There is a tremendously strong force in Arab nationalism. In the development of this movement Egypt must undoubtedly play a great, perhaps the leading, role. But I feel that our Egyptian friends and the Egyptian Government must realise that admiration for Egypt is not the same thing as love for Egyptian imperialism. We should also point out to Colonel Nasser and other Arab nationalists, who feel so strongly on certain matters that they take arms from the Russians or make an alliance with the Communists, the dangers in this course, because the Soviets are only using them as an instrument of Soviet policy. It is very important that the Egyptian Government should not be confused about these two matters and we should tell them by all the means in our power including the Press and radio of the dangers for them of following these policies. I should also ask them to look round at the fate of the Crimean Tartars and the other Muslem minorities in the Soviet Union and ask them if they would like one day to share the same fate. The crux of the problem in the Middle East lies here in this country where the final decision still rests about what can  be done. We are perhaps not the most powerful nor the only country interested, but we are probably the only country which is at present really in the position to take a decision. One of the decisions we have to take is whether we wish to stay in the Middle East or not. To stay is unpopular, difficult and even dangerous. To go would I believe be disastrous both for this country and for the people of the Middle East. Perhaps I may quote an Arab story told about the last Arab Sultan of Granada. After he had lost the town to the Christians, he went with his mother up to a hill overlooking his capital and cried, and she said to him, ""Well may you weep like a woman for what you could not defend like a man."" Let that never be said of us in this country.
