gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Few hon. Members address the House for the first time without a measure of diffidence, and I am no exception in that respect. In addition, one cannot take the place of Arthur Skeffington as Member for Hayes and Harlington without some humility. I am conscious that he was held in great esteem by the whole House, which recognised his many qualities, not least his personal integrity, and his unselfish contribution over a wide field. In the constituency which he represented for nearly 18 years he was a much loved Member of Parliament who set a standard of service which any successor would find difficult to attain. I came to Hayes and Harlington only recently after a few preliminary skirmishes in less advanced areas. With Heathrow on the southern rim, I suppose I can claim that more famous as well as infamous people set foot, albeit briefly, in my constituency than in any other part of Britain. Although only 15 miles from Westminster, and now part of the Greater London conurbation, Hayes and Harlington retains a most distinctive character. Indeed, as often happens, feelings of local identity and tradition have been strengthened rather than diminished by association in recent years with the wider community of London.   Most of its people work in local industry, which ranges from advanced technology in the electronics field to the processing and packaging of a wide variety of foods, some of which are household names all over the world. I would also mention the local aircraft industry, and the airport with its freight business—cargo coming in and going out of the country by air—which play a vital rôle in the life and the economy of the constituency as they do of Britain as a whole. Perhaps even in this important debate I may be allowed to refer to the by-election result itself because it spoke eloquently of the sense of outrage felt by the electorate at the mismanagement of our affairs during the last year. It was not simply anger at unemployment which has taken its toll of skilled workers in Hayes, nor anger at artificially induced stagnation, nor even simply anger at consumer prices soaring to unprecedented levels in direct and deceitful breach of the pledges which secured the Government their victory a year ago. It went much deeper. It was the Government's social attitudes as a whole which the people of Hayes and Harlington found so repellent. It is in such Measures as last week's Education (Milk) Bill—and what a dreadful misnomer that is—that Tory Governments demean themselves and ensure their own destruction. The people of Hayes and Harlington have a warm sense of social justice, and not for over 30 years has there been an electoral swing of such dimensions against any Conservative Administration. In four parliamentary elections since 1966, including two by-elections, I have spoken in favour of Britain's entry into the European Community. I can do no less today. While I recognise the great complexity of the issue and the sincerity of those who oppose entry, the case for it seems to me a convincing one on both economic and political grounds. If one accepts this, as I do, the fact then in addition that this is a move towards European co-operation and unity, with all that that could, and, in my view, ultimately will, mean in terms of sheer Socialist aspiration makes this an overwhelmingly convincing case. It was to my mind greatly to the credit of the last Labour Government that in 1967, at a time of considerable economic weakness, and again last year when our  position had become a strong one, they showed courage and realism in reviving earlier abortive applications. I would, of course, like every other hon. Member on this side of the House, feel happier if Britain's entry was to be under the aegis of Labour leadership. That it is not cannot of itself destroy the validity of the case for going in. I hope and believe that the time is not far off when a Labour Government will be able to place a Socialist emphasis on our membership of the Community and develop positive programmes of action with like-minded Europeans and Social Democratic organisations. In the course of the by-election I made it clear that I was in favour of British entry, subject to acceptable terms. I believe that apart from any other consideration it would in the long term be of economic benefit to my constituency. It would, in my view, mean more work and more industry coming into this area, which has been declining industrially for some years past. I have in mind also that it is particularly the type of industry and industrial services contained in the constituency which would benefit most from an expanded and buoyant market. Other right hon. and hon. Members have addressed the House on the issues central to the decision that must be taken later in the year. If, Sir, you will bear with me for a few moments longer, I would refer briefly to an aspect of the Community which greatly impresses me and is sometimes overlooked. That is how internationally-minded and outward-looking the Community has become. From its very inception the Community created a network of relations with the wider world beyond Europe. It is just this network which can be complementary to our own network of relations, particularly with the Commonwealth. I think it is extremely heartening that associate membership of the Community will be open to all the African members of the Commonwealth, and to the Caribbean countries, too, if Britain joins. The prospects here, it seems to me, are for a deepening of the Commonwealth relationship rather than for a slackening of our ties with these peoples. The East African Commonwealth and Nigeria, of course, already have their own connections with the Common Market. Moreover, the Community's special agreements rather   nearer home in the Mediterranean basin can be of great value to this country. The right hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. du Cann) has just said something about this, and I listened with interest to him. I am thinking of the economic association—of course, there is no political association involved here—with countries such as Greece and Turkey, with North African nations such as Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, with Israel and most probably with Egypt, and with Spain. These agreements will give British exporters preferential access to an additional market of 100 million people. This presents, does it not, a tremendous opportunity and, as it were, a bonus on entry into Europe? The Community has other overseas relationships which are just as important in their own way. I have in mind its exchanges with Latin America, Japan and countries of the Soviet bloc. I have not the time now to say anything about the Community's extensive programme of aid for overseas development. I am glad that others of my hon. Friends and hon. Members opposite have said something about this themselves. The point which I make in conclusion is not simply that the prospects for British trade will be enhanced. It is that the Community is outwood-looking in the best sense of that term. It has looked out beyond its own continental boundaries. It has demonstrated that it is not a narrow selfish grouping. It is to this generous outward-looking spirit that we in Britain, with all our experience, can make a leading contribution.
