gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have received advice from many sources and I have been informed that it is the tradition of this House that one's first utterances should be short and non-controversial. It lies easily within my power to make them short; it is perhaps a little more difficult to make them non-controversial on a Motion of this character, but I am most anxious not to offend in this respect. Since joining this House, I have been treated, as I am sure has every hon. Member, with the greatest kindness and courtesy on both sides, and if I offend in any way in that respect, I hope I may be forgiven. The election at North Lewisham was the first time I had fought any election, and the first time in which I had the experience that many hon. Members here have had many times. I hope, however, that it will not be thought to be presumptuous on my part if I seek to give an impression to the House of the picture which I have formed as to what people are feeling and thinking now about the questions facing them, and about the record of this Government and the effects of its policies, particularly in relation to the subject matter of this debate. The overriding impression formed is that people are feeling to some extent bewildered and considerably disillusioned by what they feel to be a lack of correspondence between the words and the deeds of the Government; the difference between what the Government said they were going to do, and what they have done. This has shown itself in many matters which are not relevant to the debate. One could develop it in terms of foreign policy, in terms of the Rent Bill, in terms of home ownership and interest charges. But, coming to the present topic, the overwhelming point relates to the cost of living and the social services combined, and the way that those two are inter-related. And, of course, they are closely inter-related, because the greater the pressure of the cost of living, the greater the need for the social services among those for whom they are specially designed. The greater the burden put on poorer people for the cost of the social services, the more they feel the effects of the continuing oppressive burden of the cost of living. When the Government first came to power they did so because they had succeeded, amongst other things, in convincing the people of this country that they wholly accepted all that which had been built up during the six years of the Labour Government in terms of the social services, which was sometimes called the Welfare State. They had convinced the country that they not only accepted the structure of it but that they also accepted the principles on which it was based. I was glad to observe that the Prime Minister, in his magnanimous way, in his first broadcast just after becoming Prime Minister identified himself with these achievements of the Labour Government, saying, ""We have built up our defences against want and sickness and we are proud of it."" What I think is happening is that people are now beginning to be disturbed and anxious about the future of these social services and where the burden of them is to lie. The problem resolves itself into this very simple question: are the social services to be maintained and, if so, who is to pay for them? Fine phrases about building an Opportunity State and giving greater opportunities to the bold, the strong and the adventurous, do not help to solve this problem. If the bold and the   strong and the adventurous are to be relieved of some of the burden and given greater opportunities, does that mean that the burden is to fall on the timid and the weak and those whose occupations give them no opportunity for adventures? The truth is that for the vast majority of the working population there is no opportunity to be bold and adventurous in their work. Indeed, if they tried to be bold and adventurous they would probably get the sack. The simple question is, how are these things to be paid for, assuming for the moment that they are to be maintained? They can either be paid for directly by the consumer, which is the principle introduced to some extent with the prescription charges, or they can be paid for by insurance contributions or by general taxation. I entirely agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, South-East (Miss Bacon) in her view about the relative rightness of insurance contributions and general taxation as the source for financing the social services and with the reasons which she gave, but what is clearly happening by these most recent developments—and this is the whole subject matter of the Motion—is that an increasing burden is being placed on those who are least able to bear it. The hon. Member for Leeds, North-East (Sir K. Joseph) rightly said that the people who are suffering most under the present measures are those who are immediately above the subsistence level. I do not wish to weary the House with individual cases, for I am sure that all hon. Members are well aware of individual cases amongst their own constituents, but I should like to give one which came to my attention recently. It concerns a lady who was an old-age pensioner, but, as her husband was working part-time, she did not qualify for National Assistance. She called in the doctor and he made one diagnosis and prescribed four items of medicine which cost her 4s. to buy. He called again later in the week and discovered that his first diagnosis was wrong. He made a second diagnosis, which fortunately proved right, and gave another prescription containing three further items. The result was that in one week this lady was burdened with a charge of 7s. To someone just above the subsistence level that is a very heavy burden indeed. It is not merely that it is a heavy burden on her it strikes at the root of the whole principle of the National Health Service, which is that people should not have the additional financial burden put on them at the very moment that they are least able to bear it, namely, when they are afflicted with sickness. We have to consider not merely the burden on the people but also the effect which these charges have on the administration of the National Health Service. There was a report in the newspapers recently of speeches made by the chemists at their annual conference. I have forgotten the name of the organisation. Many chemists from all over the country spoke and gave figures of the total reduction in the number of prescriptions which had taken place since the charges were increased. I think the average reduction was 20 to 25 per cent., but one chemist from Huddersfield spoke in terms of a reduction of 60 per cent. These reductions were undoubtedly the result of the increased prescription charges. We have also to consider the increase in the charge for school meals. Again, people just above the subsistence level are most affected by this. I was surprised during my by-election campaign by the number of cases—not merely one or two—of parents who told me that as a result of the previous increase in the charges for school meals they had been compelled to make their children walk to school where previously they had taken buses. I have not yet had an opportunity to find out what the result of this further increase will be, but if they were led to those measures on the last occasion. I can only conclude that there is now serious risk that the children will not be able to have the school meals. All this is on the assumption that, basically, the social services are to remain, but one may perhaps call this, too, into question. During the North Lewisham by-election the Minister of Education, Lord Hailsham, came to Lewisham and gave one of his vigorous speeches. If he was correctly reported—and, of course, he may not have been—in the Daily Mailthe next day, he outlined this broad idea of the Opportunity State which seems to form the subject of so many Conservative speeches at the moment and said that he envisaged a picture of bigger incentives and bigger   rewards for professional men and skilled men. He went on to say: But there may also be a scaling down of welfare services because they will no longer be necessary. The Prime Minister informed the House last week that Lord Hailsham always talked sense and that it was for that reason that he had appointed him Minister of Education. I should be interested to learn from the Minister who replies to the debate, as I think will other hon. Members, whether it is the view of the Government that there are welfare services which are no longer necessary and may have to be scaled down for that reason. If there are, we should be very interested to know which services are no longer necessary, and no longer necessary for whom? I see that in the new National Insurance Bill which has been published there is a Clause providing for cuts in unemployment benefit for people on short time. Is that one of the welfare services which is thought to be no longer necessary? It is a cut which will cause heavy suffering if and when we have another crop of short-time working such as that which we have seen recently in the motor industry. One of the most alarming features about the whole of this trend is the emphasis which is placed more and more on the extension of the principle of the means test. We have heard it said—and it has been said already in the debate several times—that the poorest classes will be able to recover prescription charges from the National Health Service and that they will get the welfare milk free. The Minister of Housing and Local Government, when answering Questions at Question time recently about interest rates and the withdrawal of subsidies as they affected the housing programmes of local authorities, said that if local authorities introduced differential rent schemes they would find it easier to continue their housing programmes—again, an extension of the means test principle. If this is to be the policy and if this is the way in which payment for the social services is to be extended, it will cut fundamentally at the root of the whole principle of the social services, because people quite rightly regard the means test as being an humiliation and compelling  them to turn to charity for something which they regard as being their right. The principle of the social services is opposed fundamentally to this notion of charity. The principle, of course, is that everyone contributes either through taxation or through insurance contributions to the services and that everyone is entitled to the benefit of them. If it is to be the policy of the Government to say that more and more people must pay directly for the services as they get them, and if the burden becomes too heavy on them they must turn to the National Assistance Board, then they are striking at the whole principle. It is this trend which, I respectfully suggest, is one of the reasons which is leading people to feel that the Government in their actions and in their policies are getting fundamentally out of touch with the situation as it affects the ordinary people of the country. I should like to conclude with one instance, although I promised not to weary the House with particular instances. I remember vividly calling at the prefabricated bungalow of one householder and asking how she intended to vote. Her answer, given in a rather weary voice, was, ""The last time I voted Conservative, but this time I will vote for you."" Then she added, ""They just do not seem to understand; they do not realise what life is like for people like us."" I only quote that because I believe that that woman, in those simple phrases, expressed what very many people in this country are feeling today, and it helps to explain why it is that the Member for Lewisham, North now sits on this side of the House.
