gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to thank the Chair for allowing me to participate in this debate. I intrude into this debate as a maiden speaker with great diffidence, in view of the illustrious speakers who have contributed so far. I wish to add my thanks to the Chair and to the staff of the House for their welcome and helpfulness to all new Members. It is a signal honour to represent so varied and large a constituency as North Dorset—a rectangle 40 miles across from each corner, which encompasses the incomparable beauty of Dorset downland, villages once wandered by Tess of the d'Urbervilles and hills stalked by the Mayor of Casterbridge. More recently they became the haunt of BBC2 producers and a dozen bare bodies covered with nothing but woad belonging to those who last year were searching for the Anglo-Saxon way of life by living in the past. It gives me great pleasure to pay tribute to my predecessor David James, an independent and patriotic character respected on both sides of the House. He was a tireless constituency Member, particularly concerned for the individual when confronted by the monolith of the State. For a man who, resolutely and by the standards of this parliamentary generation, wrongly refused to advertise himself, he had an extraordinary career. No episode of his career as naval officer, publisher, author, explorer, naturalist, adventurer and touristic entrepreneur is more fascinating than his escape from a prisoner of war camp disguised as the Bulgarian army officer, Lieutenant Bugarov. It would be unparliamentary, and unbecoming of a maiden speaker, to repeat the name of the fictitious Bulgarian town his forged passport gave as his birthplace. I know that the House will wish him well in his new career. The work that he and Quetta James did in North Dorset will not be forgotten. Men of Dorset are not, by reputation, ""afear'd"", and it was one of my earlier predecessors, Bob Crouch, who was responsible for the resignation of a Government Minister over the Crichel Down case. He believed it to be an important part of a Member of Parliament's duty to protect the individual against the State, I share that belief. For many years farming has been the major industry in North Dorset and has employed the overwhelming majority of people. Efficient and productive as it is, it now directly employs only 15 per cent. of the population. Dairy farming, which is our area speciality, is second to none in the Common Market, and the Sturminster Newton calf market has the highest turnover in England. If British industry generally was as efficient as our farming industry, instead of achieving the classification of a less prosperous country we would be the leading industrial country in Europe. Much employment in my constituency is provided by a host of small businesses. Some are connected with agriculture, but many are high technology, light engineering companies. The largest employer in my constituency, Flight Refuelling, employs about 900 people and specialises, as do many other similar companies, in high-quality aeronautical products. Companies such as this are competing in world   markets for sales of computer products, building systems and electronic equipment. They are the pacesetters of today and the major employers of tomorrow. They look to this Government to prohibit some of the unacceptable industrial relations practices experienced during last winter. These small companies need to be encouraged to create wealth and new jobs and they wait anxiously for some easing of the burden of employment legislation in its present form. They expect capital taxation which is, at worst, no more burdensome than that in other EEC countries. They do not expect, or deserve, heavily increased obligations as a result of forthcoming company law legislation. They are giving a loud welcome to my right hon. and learned Friend's proposals for the reduction of direct taxation, as, I believe, do all who are engaged directly in industry. The welcome will be particularly loud in the entertainment industry, for which I have acted as an adviser and in which it has been inelegantly said by many of my constituents that we in the House all play a part. There is no known measure of the incentive effect of reduced direct taxation, but it cannot be right to penalise the talent on which our country depends by the totalitarian rates of tax which applied until the bold and far-sighted proposals were made. It is not just people such as certain friends of mine from Merseyside who have been hounded out of this country by our taxation system, although others depend on such people for their jobs. Skilled workers and middle managers, as a result of high taxation and poor economic performance, have found, in ever-increasing numbers, that they will achieve a better standard of living elsewhere in Europe. They have been voting with their feet in their one-way exodus. Far from costing the Exchequer lost revenue, the proposal to reduce the top rates of income tax may well prove to be self-financing. The elderly and retired, of whom I have a good number in my constituency, will also welcome my right hon. and learned Friend's proposal to increase the pension and alleviate the application of the investment income rule, a tax on savings which I should like to see reduced  still further when economic circumstances permit. There is a good deal of talk about the poor in our society. I believe that pensioners have the greatest claim on our attention. They have seen their fixed incomes eroded and their individual economies destroyed as inflation, the great ravager, has made nonsense of the arrangements they made for their old age. I submit that this is a proper area for our concern. However, pensioners recognise that the future of this country depends upon increasing productivity and they accept the arguments that we put forward during the election campaign for the necessity of shifting taxation which have been outlined in the Budget. But the spectre of inflation, given impetus by last winter, looms again, notwithstanding the neutral effect of the Budget. The Government must, for the sake of pensioners, as for us all, continue to squeeze inflation ruthlessly out of the system. This Budget is not, and was not, presented as a complete mechanism for transforming the economy overnight, but it represents an essential and bold step in the direction of removing some of the inhibitions which snag our progress and delay our economic success. I believe that there are more steps to be taken in this direction and there are risks attached. My right hon. and learned Friend is to be congratulated on his courage.
