gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would ask the House for that courtesy to a new hon. Member which I understand it traditionally allows, even for the most inept performance, on the occasion of a maiden speech. I understand too that there is a convention that speeches on this occasion should not be controversial, but Members of Parliament for Pembroke find that an extraordinarily difficult convention to deal with. My predecessor established a tradition of rugged independence, and although I do not intend to follow him down all the strange paths that he chose to follow, I must say that rugged independence is something which I too value, particularly when it seems necessary for the prosperity and well being of those whom I have been elected to represent. I can think of few counties where common interests, traditions and loyalties are stronger than they are in Pembroke.  It is, I suppose, our remoteness from the rest of Britain, and the sense of isolation and identity that this produces, that causes us to fight so hard for those things we believe to be important. In recent years few things have appeared more important than our fight for a better hospital, and it is because I believe that there are general lessons to be learned from that fight that I have chosen to speak in this debate, particularly as hon. Gentlemen opposite seem, as always, to be more concerned with the volume of expenditure than with the quality and content that it produces. The Office of Health Economics Report, just released, is surely right to question whether we are spending our money wisely. It is not just an expanding programme of hospital building that we need. Certainty that we are building the right hospitals, an understanding of why, in some areas, people spend so much longer in hospital than in others—Wales is one of the places where they do this—and a greater concentration on providing more facilities to keep people out of hospital are vitally important. There is widespread, though not universal, acceptance of the concept of the district general hospital. The Committee under the chairmanship of Desmond Bonham-Carter in 1965 expressed the view that it should serve an even larger group of population. Bonham-Carter, however, recognised two things; first, that if larger populations are to be served, patients and visitors must travel longer distances, causing practical and financial hardship. The Commissioners drew attention to the need for the co-ordinated planning of hospital, ambulance and public transport systems, recommended that further financial aid should be given to those who could not otherwise afford to visit relatives and said that overnight accommodation should be provided for those who wished to be near the seriously ill or perhaps those who required treatment but did not need the use of a hospital bed. These recommendations are particularly important for remote areas like West Wales and I urge my right hon. Friend to give them the most urgent consideration. The second and even more crucial qualification made by Bonham-Carter to   the concept of the ideal general hospital is that in the more sparsely populated regions: … it will remain necessary to provide a district general hospital to serve less than 150,000 people and, in a very few places, even less than 100,000"". This is the situation over the greater part of Wales, where a population of less than 1 million forms a great semicircle, from Wrexham to Carmarthen. In these sparser regions serious problems arise that require extremely careful consideration; and they have already seriously delayed the hospital building programme in some parts. Bonham-Carter has recommended that there should be only two types of hospital, the district general and what the Commissioners rather inelegantly describe as ""peripheral hospital units"", by which they mean general practitioner hospitals under the direct supervision of the consultants at general district hospitals. I believe that there is much more scope for the development of services in these smaller hospitals and I welcome the reference to this in our manifesto. However, some boards have got themselves into real trouble by creating something that falls almost exactly between the two types. Indeed, the Welsh Hospital Board has arrived at the rather surprising conclusion that the whole thing is no more than a matter of phraseology; that one can pacify the critics just by leaving the hospital as it is and changing its name. This approach seems indefensible. I believe that anything described as a general hospital must be fully autonomous in the major specialities provided in that hospital. The larger hospitals will, of course, have additional specialities, and in that sense I suppose that they are supported by the smaller hospitals. In other words, a hospital in a sparsely populated area may reasonably limit—indeed, must limit—the range of specialities that it offers. However, in no circumstances should it limit the service it offers in its own major specialities. In my view it is also quite wrong that any hospital designated a district general hospital should be without a fully-equipped accident unit. Although medical opinion accepts that it is worth taking a patient a considerable distance to obtain the widest possible facilities, it cannot make sense to take an accident case past a general hospital to a hospital perhaps an hour or two away where there is one additional speciality but not all the specialities to be found in some of our largest hospitals. But that is exactly the scheme proposed for the new general hospital in Pembrokeshire. I do not wish to bore the House with particular problems of West Wales, but I think that we should make sure that we are building the right kind of hospitals. It should be made clear that the granting of general hospital status is not just a matter of phraseology, but that such a hospital must achieve certain minimum standards that set it quite apart from a general practitioner hospital and enable it, among other things, to give immediate treatment to accident cases. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. George Thomas) knows better than most that in my constituency, with a population of well over 100,000 and with its developing industrial centre at Milford Haven, we will be satisfied with nothing less. I should like to touch on one other important aspect of this problem. At present, the average time taken in this country between the decision to build a hospital and the start of the work is four years: in America it is about 18 months. In many cases here at least 10 years elapse between the moment of decision to build and the first occupation of the premises. The whole process is not only lengthy but adds greatly to the eventual cost. If we are talking of an expanding hospital programme we must improve on the present process of design and construction, particularly as in several cases the present system does not even justify itself by producing the best possible hospitals. I believe that a case can be made out for taking the planning and execution work out of the hands of the hospital board and its committees and placing it in the hands of an executive officer, responsible to the board but responsible, too, for carrying out the work. I also believe that we have not given nearly enough attention to standardisation of   ward and departmental design and layout, which should be based on the latest concepts kept continuously up to date by the Ministry's architects. There would have to be a wide variety of such designs for different sites and conditions—perhaps nowhere is this more true than in Wales—but their use would enormously reduce the scope of argument—and, my goodness, some argument goes on—and that would ensure that schemes were based, not on local whims but on the latest ideas of the medical profession as a whole. They would also make for much greater use of industrialised building than has so far proved possible, and could result in a dramatic reduction in costs. Hon. Members on both sides will be aware that we have gone some way in the use of standardised components, but this has so far only been an attack on the very fringes of the problem. If we are to make worth-while savings in hospital building costs we really must streamline the present cumbersome planning procedures, with their constant revision of plans and tenders. We should also ask whether in many cases it is right to build in stages rather than complete the whole operation in one. While it is true that we might have to wait longer before starting on some hospitals, we would take away the need of contractors to remove their plant, tidy up the site and go elsewhere—a process both expensive and inconvenient. Hon. Members opposite sometimes give the impression that the only solution to social problems is the expenditure of more and more money. I believe that we have to get better value for money, particularly in an area that is taking such a very high proportion of the total Health Service expenditure. The need to do that is one of the most urgent tasks facing the new Government. I thank hon. Members for their courtesy.
