gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I was extremely nervous earlier this afternoon at the presence of so many of my right hon. and hon. Friends in the Chamber who were clearly awaiting my maiden speech as well as the autumn economic statement of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They are now detained elsewhere on important matters and their judgment is to be much commended. I am most grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to address the House for the first time during the Army debate. It is not the first time that I have sat at the feet of my hon. Friend the Minister, as in a previous incarnation I have listened to other discourses from him. The constituency of Crawley, which I have the honour to represent, was previously served by my hon. Friend the Member for Horsham (Mr. Hordern)—whose economic expertise I shall not be able to match but whose service to the constituency I will hope to emulate—and my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Sussex (Mr. Renton) from whom I have inherited a splendid rural area. Crawley is a most interesting constituency. It represents a complete cross secton of British life today. It includes Gatwick airport where, among others, that most excellent example of free enterprise British Caledonian makes its home and where also I am lucky to have the headquarters of the British Airports Authority. I am sure that my hon. Friends will be delighted to welcome shortly that most successful institution to the cleansing and more competitive rigours of the free market place. The Crawley industrial estate contains a remarkable galaxy of successful and innovative industrial companies which have come through the recession with flying colours and which are now set fair for a period of expansion. We have an excellent work force, many of whom are highly skilled, operating in a spirit of determination and harmony—those two great keys to the door of industrial success. The new town of Crawley is a pleasant and active community. We have a large Asian population which plays an important role in our affairs and which is a great contributor to the undoubted success of the town. I am also lucky enough to have a beautiful rural area which retains much of the glory of the Sussex countryside. In short, I have a constituency which has sufficient breadth in its diversity for me to be able to seek to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to intervene in practically any subject raised in the House, in the interest of those whom I represent. Our debate takes place against a background of some considerable confusion in world affairs. The correlation of defence and foreign policy is most intimate. Our defence policy is, by definition, crucial to the pursuit of our foreign policy. There are several avenues by which we pursue our overseas interests—those that we undertake on our own account; those that we develop in conjunction with our European partners; and those within the context of the Alliance. Whichever way we seek to pursue our objective, our defence and foreign policies are credible only if they stand astride three principles. We need a strong, democratic and united society with an economy to match. We need a sound and effective military deterrent, conventional and nuclear, and, perhaps most importantly of all, a strategy for the future and a practical and realistic policy to pursue. We have proved beyond any measure of doubt that we are prepared to deter and defend our interests by force of arms under certain clear circumstances. At the crucial moment, we were found lacking neither in the skills and courage of our service personnel nor in the internal strength of the nation. For the future, we need to develop highly flexible defence policies, not just so that our people may have confidence in us, but because when we discuss these matters with our many friends in the rest of the world they must know that we have a series of definitive and consistent objectives in which they may safely repose their confidence, and under whose umbrella they may wish to shelter their interests. In the paper ""The Way Forward"" that the Secretary of State for Defence presented to Parliament in June 1981, the Government made a most important point. They said: To go on simply as before, or with all plans and aspirations unabated, is not an option; change is necessary. The Government has taken hard decisions. These reflect our resolve to give defence the resources Britain's security demands; but with equal resolve to see that these resources, which the nation cannot spare without much penalty elsewhere, are put to work in accordance with realistic, unsentimental and up-to-date judgments of what will be most relevant and effective in future years. In that context, and although the Government have done just that, we still need to adjust to circumstances to provide Britain with what it needs when it needs it, both to protect our people and to support our foreign policy. The question of matching policies to resources is of fundamental importance in the fashioning of defence and foreign policy, just as it is in the making of domestic policy. The interdependence of those two policies was well summed up by the representative of a middle east country who commented on our contribution to the multinational force in Lebanon. He said: Every scout car flying the Union Jack is an ambassador for your country. I realise that we are asking the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign Office to undertake an almost impossible task.   They must predict constantly the Army 's requirements during the next 10 or 15 years and how the Army should be organised and equipped. Army planners must, therefore, consider all the potential aspects of conflict and foreign policy, which could require military involvement. We cannot ignore the fact that a military force, especially the Army, could and does make a considerable contribution to the dynamism and success of our foreign policy by its physical presence. I am considering not only the Army's peacekeeping role, but the crucial role of military assistance in a broad area ranging from mere advice to providing contract officers, to training teams and to drafting a responsible and judicious programme of arms sales, all of which must be designed to help our friends to help themselves. From experience and looking out over the future, I cannot help but believe that our military resources would be better spread across a realistic range of limited and, therefore, winnable conflicts. We cannot have flexible response and forward defence quite simply because we cannot afford both. I took to heart the point made by my hon. Friend the Minister of State for the Armed Forces about the commitment of our forces to the British Army of the Rhine. But we must review seriously again and again the role of the British forces in Germany. If we are to retain a flexibility in our foreign policy which is capable of being backed up by our defence policy, we must accept a small reduction in that force. That is not to opt out of our historic role but merely to shift some of our capacity so that in peace time we can reassure our allies, and in time of tension we can reinforce them wholeheartedly. At present we have too many British eggs in the German basket. That is a major problem which Army planners must face sooner rather than later. I do not envy them their task. May I thank right hon. and hon. Members for the courtesy and consideration with which they have listened to this maiden offering?
