gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye in this most important debate so that I may make my first contribution to the sea of words which ebb and flow in this famous and illustrious Chamber, but from which so much of history has taken her seed. I must pay tribute to my predecessor at Macclesfield, Sir Arthur Vere Harvey, now Lord Harvey of Prestbury, who was a Member of this House for 26 years. Lord Harvey was respected and liked right across political barriers in both my constituency, which was his, and the House of Commons. I can say, without reservation, that I am proud to follow him as the representative for Macclesfield. Why have I decided to make my first speech in the House on the Criminal Justice Bill? Because it is one of the major responsibilities of any Government to build up and maintain effective barriers of law and order within which the community can live, and live in freedom. It is not just a political commitment, but a moral commitment. However, in my opinion, where crime and punishment are concerned, for perhaps two decades successive Governments have allowed idealistic compassion to blind their eyes to reality. For whom do they show this compassion—the criminal or the victim? Too often I fear that it is the criminal about whom they are concerned. The victim must fend for himself or herself. Prisons are gradually being converted into what can only be described as recreation centres. Prison warders are the victims of softness to prisoners. The last Socialist Government abolished the birch for violent attacks by prisoners on warders, leaving warders defenceless. When asked what punishment remained to deter them, the then Home Secretary gave the absurd answer, ""Loss of liberty"". Is it any wonder that prison officers complain that they are being used as guineapigs in a dangerous social experiment with nothing more effective than unproven theories for protection? Is it any wonder that men and women throughout the country are growing more concerned about the increasing breakdown in law and order? What are the facts? First, let us take crimes of violence in three different years: 1950, 1960 and 1970. In 1950 there was a total of 6,249 crimes of violence, representing 141·96 per million of the population. In 1960 this had more than doubled. There were 15,759 crimes of violence, representing 344·27 per million of the population. In 1970 the figure had more than doubled again. There were 41,088 crimes of violence, representing 838·74 per million of the population. My figures refer to indictable offences known to the police in England and Wales. Let us be a little more specific and deal with robbery with violence. In 1950 there were 93,860 offences, representing 2,132·21 per million of the population. In 1960 there were 153,392 offences, representing 3,351 per million of the population. In 1970 there were 437,748 offences, representing 8,935·82 per million of the population. That shows a tremendous rate of increase in crimes about which so many people are concerned. But let us come right up to date. In the first six months of 1971 the number of crimes of violence known to the police was 21,307, an increase of 13·4 per cent. over the first six months of 1970. The number of offences of robbery with violence was 237,982, an increase of only 3·1 per cent., I am glad to say, over the same period in 1970. Our ""radical"" legal legislators have had a blind preoccupation with punishing or treating criminals rather than preventing or deterring crimes out of which criminals are created and the resultant growing burden of incarceration and training which becomes more costly and sophisticated the more liberal our laws become. We have allowed the purveyors of filth and pornography to degrade human dignity. Even when a courageous judge deals out just punishment to fit the offence, his good work is undone on appeal. We have allowed trendy propagandists to teach us that notions of discipline and self-discipline are old-fashioned in the home, in school, and in personal relationships between man and woman. That has already been mentioned by my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary. We have allowed drugs to undermine the personal responsibility of too many of our young people, too often failing to appreciate the depth of the problem and failing to explain the full horrors of drugs. We have allowed the very meaning of the word ""freedom"" to be perverted. In 1969 this House, on a free vote, abolished capital punishment some year or so before the five-year experimental period was complete, although—I say this with emphasis—a substantial majority of the people of this country wanted capital punishment retained. Perhaps many of those who voted for the abolition of the deterrent were those who complained most bitterly in this House in the recent Common Market debate that we could not take a decision to enter the Community when a majority of the British people opposed entry. That is an interesting comparison: one a political issue and the other a moral issue. Which is more important to this House? I would support the reintroduction of the ultimate deterrent for three categories of murder: the murder of police officers, the murder of prison officers and murder resulting from armed robbery. The recent tragic deaths of a number of police officers has once again focussed public attention on the issue of capital punishment as a deterrent to violent crime. I am aware that much propaganda has been made by the abolitionists of the  figures supplied by the Home Office on the rate of murder in recent years. We are told, with some pride, that the rate has remained constant or even fallen a little. This particular myth, for that is what it is, has been perpetrated by the Home Office system of recording and adjusting the figures for murder, such adjustments not having been made in the past. Owing to the Homicide Act, 1957, many crimes, which in 1956 would have been murder, now fall to be entered as manslaughter, so the combined rate gives a truer indication of the rise. According to Chief Inspector Colin Greenwood of the West Yorkshire Constabulary, the murder rate has at least doubled and the combined murder and manslaughter rate has quadrupled—facts which I believe are well hidden in official statistics. I ask this House to let the public have all the facts. The Conservative Party has openly stated that the protection of the individual citizen is a prime duty of government and that urgent action is needed to check the serious rise in crime and violence. I am aware that already, in just 18 months in Government, the police and probation services have received large pay increases and have substantially increased their strength. I am aware that the Courts Act has brought a major reform of the machinery of justice. I know that the law against vandalism has been strengthened—a long overdue reform—and that the powers of courts to order offenders to pay compensation to their victims have been improved by the Criminal Damage Act 1971. I welcome the main provisions of this Criminal Justice Bill, which will increase the penalty for possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life, will change the present system of suspended sentences—which has been a bonanza of encouragement to petty offenders—will make the criminal compensate his victim to prove that crime does not pay, and further in thin direction, will, where appropriate, bankrupt criminals who would otherwise benefit from the proceeds of large-scale crime. There must be no more enforced holidays with remission, followed by an easy life on the proceeds of crime. Proposals in the Bill will compel people guilty of certain crimes to give community service, and much has been said   about that this afternoon. This is a particularly valuable proposal, as it will give offenders the opportunity of doing useful work. It will give them the self-respect of knowing that they have paid for their crimes and perhaps, also, it will breed a sense of social responsibility. My right hon. Friend the Home Secretary has on occasions—and he did so again this afternoon—expressed concern about the terrifying proportion of crimes committed by young people in their 'teens. As the chairman of a county youth service committee, having in the course of my responsibility met many young people, I suggest to my right hon. Friend and his colleagues in the Cabinet that they should consider bringing in a scheme to offer all young people leaving school, and before they seek employment or go on to college or university, a 12-to 18-month period of voluntary national service, in the social services, in the hospitals, in agriculture, in forestry, on environmental and amenity projects, in voluntary service overseas, or even in the Forces. Give young people the opportunity to serve, and they will accept the responsibility. With discipline, responsibility and a purpose in life we could see a great change in the crime rate among young people in Great Britain. It is said that a country gets the laws it deserves. Once we are prepared to stop the rot in our society and stand up and defend the traditional and moral values vital to the health of our country, then we shall have a right to demand, as I feel we must, stiffer punishments for those crimes which our society can never tolerate. Although, in the words of William Pitt, Earl of Chatham, The atrocious crime of being a young man … I shall neither attempt to palliate nor deny"", I urge the House to take a sharper sword to crime.
