gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
There falls to me the rare honour of paying a universally heartfelt and greatly deserved tribute to a former Prime Minister and a most distinguished and successful Foreign Secretary, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, one of the greatest statesmen and conciliators of this century, a most respected Member of this House, and a beloved representative of my constituents in Kinross and West Perthshire. Sir Alec's counsels will be greatly missed in the public life of Great Britain, and his inspiration places upon me the special duty of making such contribution to the deliberations of the House and the life of this country as my meagre abilities may provide. The life work of Sir Alec Douglas-Home illustrates how much greater is the contribution that Scotsmen can make to world affairs through the indissoluble partnership of the United Kingdom than they could make in isolation, and the great benefit to the reputation of Scotland which our right to representation in the Parliament of Great Britain obtains for us. There is in this great, powerful and inventive nation a crisis, but I believe that it is a crisis not so much of economics as of confidence and morale. I see in prospect in the last quarter of this century a great period for our country in the service of civilisation, if we will but be true to our principles and traditions. The briefest glance at the recent voting figures discloses that the people overwhelmingly voted for a Parliament of statesmanship and not for a Parliament of politics, and there lies, I humbly believe, on each one of us, but especially upon the Scots, who  look forward with bright hope to the future, the duty of inspiring the national renaissance. I believe that the people of this country now realise that the division is not between right and left, or worker and management, or class and class, but between the tolerant and the intolerant, the self-disciplined and the indisciplined, the self-restrained and the self-seeking. I greatly regret that the inescapable conclusion which the Gracious Speech forces upon me is that it is the intolerant, the indisciplined and the selfish who have, for the moment, won the day. The tenor of the threatened legislation seems to move our way of life from a free country where what is not generally condemned is freely permitted to a State where what is not compulsory is forbidden. The announcement by the Secretary of State for Social Services that private beds are to be forbidden is a foreboding omen of the slide to a dirigiste society whose main fetter is nationalisation, a process which removes power and ownership, not from some hands into all hands, but from any hands into the amorphous clutches of bureaucracy and the State, and thus restricts the liberties and choice of us all. I suppose that the oldest State industry is the Forces of the Realm. The Gracious Speech proclaims the Government's intention of ensuring the maintenance of a modern and effective defence system while reducing its cost as a proportion of our national resources. That would be a commendable achievement at any time, an impossible one at a time of rampant rising costs. Either we are to have the same for less or we are to have less for the same. If, as I fear, it means the latter, none will be more pleased than those to the east of us who are continually intent on the weakening and destruction of this country as a power and democracy. But if it means that we are to get the same for less, can we hope for a similar miracle in the other nationalised industries? Can we hope that the coal, electricity and transport industries will give us more for less, or will the taxpayer receive inferior services for an ever-increasing proportion of his income and of our resources? The first result of nationalisation is centralisation of decision, usually in London. I am dismayed that the localisation of governmental decision should be proposed in the same breath as the centralisation of industrial decision, with the inevitable destruction of such Scottish firms as have, to their credit, resisted the seductive advances of the sirens of English and foreign companies. The second result of nationalisation is that the State, or, as the public see it, the Government, becomes the employer. As employers, Governments have neither the heart to be fair when the employee has a tradition of discipline and service —as nurses, police and now teachers in Scotland will confirm—nor the guts to be strong when the employee is powerful and Left Wing, such as the militants in the NUM who are demonstrating for the second time in a year—what the Prime Minister calls the ""big battalion philosophy"". With or without the productivity deal, it looks like being a cold, expensive and bitter winter. There are at work in the country forces of revolution and disintegration, ruthlessly determined to secure their interests and the interests of their dominies. Against these forces the Government have raised and wave, with perhaps genuine but, nevertheless, naive feebleness, the already shredden banner of appeasement and surrender—a social contract. For all its much vaunted magical powers, this now tattered remnant of hopeful haberdashery did not deflect or diminish by even a penny the suicidal settlement of the lorry drivers' disputed claim in Scotland, now spilling into England, for an increase of 40 per cent. to 50 per cent. on basic rates—suicidal not just for employers and the community but, much more tragically, for the families of the impendent beneficiaries. It is almost as if we wanted to pull down the pillars of the temple and revel in the rubble of our national collapse. The first victims, if not the intended first victims, will be those who show discipline and self-restraint, are self-employed or self-sufficient, who set high standards for themselves and higher horizons for their children, in the forefront of whom is the farmer. I note that  Further measures for the protection of consumers will be brought forward. But what of the producer? The best protection of the consumer at this time is the salvation of the producer. We are promised continued discussion with the farming industry. Banks do not lend on security of continuing discussions. In my constituency for an increasing number of farmers even help now may be help too late, and the continuing discussions will be but a requiem on their bankruptcy. The Government are forcing the farmer this autumn to kill the cow that lays the golden calf, and while initially they will reap only the bitter anguish of the farmer, in two years their prize will be the wrath of the consumer whom they have attempted to seduce at the producers' expense. The greatest act of statesmanship that any Government can undertake at this time is to set in motion plans to ensure that we are self-sufficient in food by the end of the century, by which time, with the doubling of world population, those nations which are not will not eat. I desperately request the Minister to forbid the import from Ireland of live cattle of unknown origins and increasing number, and to permit the export of live British cattle to Europe, from which so many of the so-called Irish cattle come; and I desperately urge him to come to the rescue of the most restrained, dedicated and essential industry in our land. I note also at this time of necessary national thrift that Legislation will be introduced to provide additional protection for people booking overseas holidays and travel who suffer loss as a result of the failure of travel organisers. Why should such people, who could for a trivial sum insure their holidays, obtain protection at the expense of those who pay tax on the meagre income from their savings, of their already taxed life-time incomes, who have never had the means to enjoy, or who, on account of their thrift on behalf of their families, have forgone such luxuries and taken their holidays—if any—in our own country? In my constituency, which is as beautiful a part of God's earth as may be found, there are many men and many women who after a lifetime of service have suffered great loss in the value of their savings, their   businesses or their shops, particulary since February, many who invested in the nation in the time of peril by buying War Loan, many who bought an annuity, or saved for a modest pension, many who invested in beef production, who have suffered great loss. Are they, in reward for their diligent lives, to be protected, or is protection only to be for the foreign holidays of the industrial worker who expects the community to provide for his retirement and whose unresisted demands enable him to book a holiday abroad? The Prime Minister, in his ministerial broadcast, promised a partnership between the Government and the whole of our national family. Are those who have done their best for their families and been the most diligent, enterprising and self-sacrificing to be omitted, or are they to be included only for the plunder of what they have saved? Let us be clear that the promise in the Gracious Speech about the redistribution of wealth is a promise for the reduction, or the destruction of capital saved and invested. Upon confiscation, the accumulated savings of the nation will be spent by the Government on nationalisation, if nothing else, and no other person in the community, however humble, will be its new recipient. While on the subject of capital, may I observe that in his eloquent maiden speech, the hon. Member for Perth and East Perthshire (Mr. Crawford) advised the House that an independent State of Scotland would have one of the lowest interest rates in the the Western world. With a rate of 15 per cent. or more in the neighbouring kingdom of England, that should effectively ensure the flight of all risk capital from the little tartan, oil-fired, Ruritanian tax haven that is to come and make Scotland a land of disillusion, deprivation and despair, but with this distinction—there will be no British Government to blame for it. I repeat that there are forces of anarchy and disintegration at work in our country. I observe with relief that Her Majesty's Ministers will continue to act decisively against terrorism and lawlessness. I trust, therefore, that the Home Secretary will be able to assure the House that yesterday's speculative reports that he is considering parole for the so-called ""flying  pickets"" who were convicted of lawlessness backed by terror are without foundation, for the people of this country will not stand for that. Last week saw three examples of the cowardice and horror of terrorism—one in England aimed at a Minister of the Crown. One in Northern Ireland aimed at the forces of the Crown. And one across the Channel in Scheveningen. The characteristic of the perpetrators of these outrages is that they are cowards. There are no applicants for martyrdom amongst their seedy and fanatical ranks. They are as jealously concerned for the salvation of their own lives as they are contemptuous of the lives of their random victims. The one decisive step which the Government can take is to treat all acts of terrorism as acts of treason or acts of war, for which the appropriate penalty is death, and to enter into international agreement that all such acts will be treated accordingly, for who can deny that the events in Scheveningen could not have occurred if the malefactors had been executed in the first place? I hope that I have said nothing in the course of these remarks which offends the traditional generous indulgence and indulgent generosity of this House. What I have said I have said from my heart, and what I have said, I trust, reflects the beat of the heart of the people of our country.
