gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Bromsgrove (Miss Kirkbride) on a superb maiden speech. I totally agree with her views on grammar schools, which I believe do more to broaden opportunity than any of the progressive social engineering policies that, unfortunately, are introduced too often in many of our state schools. I congratulate also the hon. Member for Exeter (Mr. Bradshaw) on his maiden speech. I am grateful that he has re-set the precedent for using notes in making maiden speeches. I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in this debate. It was during the debates on the 1974 Budget that my predecessor. Sir Michael Marshall, made his maiden speech. As I have been told on many occasions on doorsteps across Bognor Regis and Littlehampton, Michael Marshall will be a hard act to follow. A highly conscientious and caring constituency Member of Parliament, Sir Michael was also a keen parliamentarian, eventually serving as the president of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. He was the quintessential renaissance man, having served as Industry Minister in Mrs. Thatcher's Government, when he became an energetic promoter of science and information technology, while maintaining a keen interest in the arts and in cricket. He has written a number of learned tomes on cricket, as well as books on Jack Buchanan and Stanley Holloway. Bognor Regis, like its former Member of Parliament, is no stranger to the arts and literature. William Blake was a long-term resident of Felpham, a village on the town's outskirts. The green and pleasant land that he evoked is abundantly evident on the West Sussex coast, although one searches in vain for dark satanic mills. The resorts of Littlehampton and Bognor Regis combine all the unspoilt charm of Victorian seaside towns with the beautiful countryside of the nearby south downs. On average, Bognor Regis has the most sunshine hours in Britain, and its beach is one of only 22 with the coveted blue flag. Littlehampton, too, is famous for its beaches. Sea bathing began in Littlehampton as early as the 1750s, and it has had a harbour since mediaeval times. Today, Littlehampton—where the River Arun finishes its journey—is home to marinas and to boat builders, including Osborne's, which builds lifeboats for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. My constituency has long been a magnet for holidaymakers. G. K. Chesterton praised the strength of Bognor's deckchairs. Sir Robert Peel rested there after the stresses of the repeal of the corn laws. The Leader of the Opposition, now Prime Minister, took time off from the stresses of leading the Labour party and brought his family to that famous Bognor landmark, Butlin's, in 1995. It would be remiss of me, as the first Member of Parliament for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton, not to draw attention to the visit to Bognor in 1929 by someone even more august and eminent than the Prime Minister. For between February and May of that year the town was honoured by the presence of King George V, who came to convalesce in the fresh, sea air. Whatever the King may or may not have said about the town on his death bed in 1936—the subject of intense academic debate, to which I have no intention of adding—it is thanks to that visit that, from 1929 onwards, the town became known as Bognor Regis, the King's Bognor. The climate that led King George V's doctors to recommend his going to Bognor has attracted many generations of people to retire to the constituency. Indeed, 36 per cent. of its population today are retired. The previous Government stood up for the interests of pensioners. That is why the average pensioner today is 60 per cent. better off in real terms than in 1979, not just because the Conservative Government managed to maintain the real value of the basic state pension but because they took steps to assist and encourage the build-up of private pension assets, which now amount to a staggering £650 billion—more than the pension funds of all the European Union countries put together. The pensioners of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton will find it hard to understand why, rather than taking steps to increase the value of pension fund assets, this Budget will reduce their value. It is not a minor reduction. The Red Book makes it absolutely clear that £4 billion will be raised next year and £5.4 billion the year after from the abolition of the tax credit on dividends. That is the equivalent of confiscating from pension funds and other tax-free funds more than the windfall tax each and every year. That loss will have to be made up by higher contributions from individuals and companies. Only half of the company pension schemes represented by the National Association of Pension Funds, whose members represent 70 per cent. of all employees in this country, are in surplus. The other half will have to extract higher pension contributions from their employees or from shareholder funds. That will mean that companies will have less money for investment. Many of the funds that are in surplus have been paying discretionary increases in pensions to poorer pensioners. These may well have to stop. Some 5 million people with personal pensions will have to pay higher pension contributions immediately or face a reduced pension. The change to the dividend tax credits is income tax dressed up as a tax on companies. It is equal to a 2p rise in the rate of income tax. I looked to see what the title   was of the Inland Revenue press release that introduced that investment-destroying tax change: it is ""Tax Changes to Promote Investment by Companies"". A number of foreign companies have invested in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton. That investment has created jobs much more effectively than the Government's welfare-to-work scheme ever can, and it has brought wealth to the constituency. One hardly noticed aspect of the Budget will make such investment less likely in future. Before the Budget, an overseas investor, say, from the United States, investing in the UK through a wholly owned subsidiary could claim half the tax credit less a withholding of 5 per cent. on dividends paid to the US, which meant that the effective corporation tax rate in the UK for such a corporate investor was only 28 per cent. The Government have now reduced the refund to almost nothing. Even with the reduction in the rate of corporation tax that was announced in the Budget, it is still less advantageous to invest in the UK than it was before the Budget. And the title of the press release is: ""Tax Changes to Promote Investment by Companies"". Never has an Inland Revenue press release been more inappropriately titled. The same press release also announced the end of the foreign income dividend scheme. That was introduced by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) to assist UK companies with overseas holdings which had developed a surplus of advance corporation tax that they were unable to offset against their mainstream corporation tax liabilities because the overseas dividends had already been taxed abroad. There is no logic in abolishing that relief. It has no connection with the abolition of the dividend tax credit; it is simply a way of raising further revenue for the Government, and it recreates the problem that the Conservative Government had so imaginatively sought to solve. The Budget shows that the Labour party's much-vaunted use of focus groups has not taught it to understand or adopt the instincts of the British people, but merely to find the language with which to cover up a tax-raising Budget and a smash and grab raid on the nation's pension funds. Rather than listening to the instincts of the quiet majority, Labour Members have built up an enemies list: fat cats, pension funds, private health insurance—things that they think that the public dislike. While pretending to tackle the people's priorities, they are attacking the people, particularly pensioners. They are attacking the 62 per cent. of pensioners whose occupational pensions will be devalued by the tax credit reforms. They are attacking the 600,000 pensioners who have taken out private health insurance, at least one third of whom, independent estimates suggest, will terminate their policies and rely instead on the national health service, presenting the state with additional costs far exceeding the £115 million raised by abolishing the relief. They are attacking pensioners who pay electricity and gas bills, whose bills will rise or fall less steeply as a result of the windfall tax; attacking non-tax-paying pensioners who have a few shares and will no longer be able to claim back the tax credit on those dividends. All of that is taxation on the sly. While  declaring war on a list of enemies, the Labour Government are in fact picking the pockets of us all, and of pensioners in particular. The Government have introduced a complex welfare-to-work programme, but every major economic decision that has been taken by the Government in their eight weeks in office will destroy jobs: the minimum wage, the social chapter, higher than necessary interest rates as a result of abrogating to the Bank of England the Chancellor's responsibility for setting rates, abolishing the dividend tax credit and, of course, the windfall tax. The Chancellor's revised assumptions, set out in the National Audit Office report published on 19 June, constitute a confession that under his stewardship the economy will have lower growth, higher unemployment and higher interest rates. I was disappointed not to hear anything in the Budget statement about the tax simplification project begun by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe. All that the new Chancellor has managed to do is to create further complexity in the tax system. If someone saves in a personal equity plan, he receives a tax credit; if he saves in a pension, he does not. If he holds shares directly and is a taxpayer, he receives a tax credit; if he holds shares directly but is not a taxpayer, he does not receive a tax credit. The Chancellor eventually intends to introduce another rate of income tax. He has announced his intention to reform capital gains tax. Worst of all, he has announced that he might introduce a general anti-avoidance provision, which would give rise to huge uncertainty in the tax law. It would require pre-transaction rulings, it would give too much power to the Inland Revenue, it would hamper corporate activity and it would cause a surge in litigation as taxpayers sought to have the law clarified by the courts. The Budget is a disappointment. The Chancellor inherited an economy which is the envy of the world and which the British people trusted him to manage. With this unnecessary Budget—which seeks to increase investment, but will reduce it, and which seeks to increase the number of jobs, but will cost jobs—he has failed to live up to the high hopes of so many millions of people who voted Labour, many for the first time, on 1 May. It is a bad Budget, it is not the Budget for which the British people voted and it is one that Labour Members will come to regret.
