gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to make my maiden speech conscious of the very great honour it is for me to represent the constituency of Blackpool, South as only the third Member of Parliament for the constituency in 60 years. I start by paying tribute to my immediate predecessor, Sir Peter Blaker, who served with great distinction in the House for 28 years. Sir Peter Blaker, as hon. Members of all parties are aware, had a distinguished war record. He served with great distinction as a Minister of State in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and in the Ministry of Defence. Before his retirement at the general election, he served for some years as the distinguished chairman of the Conservative Back-Bench foreign affairs committee. I owe a personal debt of gratitude to him for his enormous assistance in the 15 months before the election during which I was the prospective parliamentary candidate, and for his assistance during the general   election campaign. While I was the prospective parliamentary candidate and during the election campaign, I became very much aware that he was held in deep and genuine affection throughout the constituency. I met many people whom he had helped, and others whose families he had helped and who had enormous admiration for his work for the constituency as its Member for Parliament. Blackpool, South, which I have the honour to represent, is well known to hon. Members as part of a town that all hon. Members have visited for party conferences. Hon. Members may have a slightly artificial idea of what Blackpool is like if they have visited it only for party conferences. It is not only a host to all the party conferences, but a place with a substantial amount of manufacturing industry, as well as the tourism of which all hon. Members are aware. The constituency has successful manufacturing industries involved in the production of children's toys and streeet furniture, and in many other areas—not only the manufacture of seaside rock. I hope that, in representing the constituency, I shall be regarded as a man with ""Blackpool"" stamped right through me like a piece of Blackpool rock. It was once said of Queen Mary that she wished to have ""Calais"" engraved on her heart. I hope that I shall be regarded as a man with ""Blackpool"" engraved on his heart. I am especially glad to have the opportunity to speak in a debate on such a vital subject in that I have had great opportunity in my career before coming to the House to be involved in European issues. I have had the opportunity to work with European Commission officials in my position as a company lawyer. If I were not in the House today, I would have been attending a meeting of the European Company Lawyers Association, as I have had the honour to represent company lawyers who are members of the Bar as the chairman of the international committee of the Bar Association for Commerce, Finance and Industry for some years. I have sat on the international practice committee of the Bar Council for some years before I came to the House. Although, like all new Members making their maiden speeches, I am conscious that it is a great mistake to pretend to any expertise, because we are all aware that there are many hon. Members who are more knowledgeable about any subject under the sun than a new Member can be, I point out to hon. Members of all parties that I have had some involvement in European matters. I know that European issues such as those being addressed in this debate are of great importance to my constituents. It is accurate to say that I have had more correspondence in a few weeks on European issues than on any other political subject. From my involvement in European matters, I believe that I should say that I have great misgivings about the decision I will ultimately make tonight to support the Government and to support the Maastricht treaty. I regard myself as sceptical about the ambition of various Commission officials to move towards a more federal state and to subsume Britain's independence. I would not support that, but I have great faith in my right hon. Friends the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary and in what they negotiated at Maastricht. They have managed  to get the best that was achievable and they have not sold the pass on Europe. They have maintained our sovereignty, and I have every confidence that they will continue to do so. I very much supported my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary when he said that we must not have European Commission officials interfering in every nook and cranny of British life. I very much support the Government's decision to maintain our frontier controls, and I very much hope that they will continue to do so. I would not support the Government tonight if I thought that there would be any surrender of British sovereignty. I do not believe that. I believe that the Maastricht treaty is the result of very successful negotiations, and I have every confidence in my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister continuing to maintain British sovereignty. I know that that is very important for my constituents and I have every confidence that the steps that have been taken to increase co-operation on matters such as law and order, which is a cause close to my heart as a lawyer, will be maintained in our future negotiations in Europe. I am delighted that this country has such a marvellous opportunity to expand its operations in such areas as financial services, with which I have been deeply involved for many years. In financial services we enjoy great opportunities to expand our trade overseas, and I have every confidence that we will continue to do so. I hope that I have observed the convention of steering away from issues of party controversy, but I promise Labour Members that this may be the last time that I do so. I believe that one of the main reasons why the treaty deserves support, and why I will support it tonight, is to be found in the successful steps that the Prime Minister has taken to exclude the social chapter and to preserve the progress that the Government have made in cutting down the number of days lost through strikes, in bringing inflation down to German levels and in reducing interest rates.
