gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the customary indulgence which the House accords with such generosity to a maiden speech. All of us here, I think, have viewed for some time with great misgiving, the drop in the voluntary enlistment figures for the Regular Army, and, as it was my good fortune and great honour to serve in the Brigade of Guards throughout the late war, I hope I may be forgiven for dealing with this problem in special relation to the Household Troops. It has seemed to me to be a very melancholy thing that two Regular pre-war battalions of His Majesty's Foot Guards have been eliminated since the war, including, as it happens, the battalion in which I had the privilege of serving for six years. Some people have in the past regarded the Household Troops mostly as gaily-attired toy soldiers who aided the pageantry of royal processions and wasted much of their time on the polish of their buttons, the shine on their boots and the set of their bearskins. Hon. Members may be aware of the three golden rules for the newly-joined guardsman in barracks. ""If you see anything that you think should not be there, pick it up. If it is too heavy to pick up, paint it; and if by any chance it moves, then it must be alive and you had much better salute it.' I wish there were three such simple rules for the guidance of newly joined Members of this House. But I venture to suggest that, despite all these well-known jokes about spit and polish, and so on, no one who has fought with or beside battalions of the Brigade of Guards in time of war would deny that the high standards of duty and discipline, which are instilled into every officer and man from the first day he joins, do result in producing fighting units which rank among the best and most highly trained and efficient in the world. It seems to me, therefore, a great pity that the number of these Regular battalions should have been reduced, as compared with pre-war, at a time when there is so much need for increased efficiency in our Armed Forces. It may be argued, of course, that reduction in the number of battalions was made necessary by the voluntary enlistment position, and, as we know, this is now very bad even in the Brigade of Guards and is still deteriorating. Before the war, whatever the situation may have been in other units, I think it is true to say that there was not the same difficulty about recruitment for the Brigade of Guards. There are, I think, many reasons for the continued falling off in the recruitment position today. Let me say straightaway that I do not agree with the suggestion that has been made, and which I thought was even implied by my right hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot (Mr. Lyttelton), that the appointment at any time of any particular individual as Secretary of State for War is a factor in worsening the voluntary enlistment position. It may be that there is possibly a certain amount of resentment among some officers about what they may regard as unsuitable appointments, but, to be perfectly frank and with great respect, and without wishing to prick the bubble of self-esteem of right hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, I may say I think it is a fact that, so far as the ordinary guardsman or private soldier is concerned, at any given time or under any Government, he has very often no idea of the name of the Secretary of State for War, and cares less. I well remember on parades during the war asking men general knowledge questions. They hardly ever knew the names of distinguished Ministers of the Crown even at that time, with the   exception, of course, that they all knew that the Prime Minister of this country at the time was my right hon. Friend the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill). I am by no means certain that they would all give the right answer even to that question at the present time. There are, I think, a number of reasons for the falling off in recruitment today. One or two apply specially to the Brigade of Guards, but others have a much more general significance. First of all, in the Brigade of Guards there is the length of service term which before the war was more attractive in the Brigade than in other regiments, but which is now the same. I do not complain of that, but it may be a minor adverse factor so far as recruiting for the Guards battalions is concerned. Secondly, there is the matter of dress which, while I have been in the Chamber, has not been very much mentioned today. The ceremonial parades, the regimental bands, the full-dress uniforms, and so on, were undoubtedly an attraction before the war, and, especially from the point of view of the wearers, the scarlet tunics in which guardsmen were allowed to walk out when off duty. It is a fact that the girls simply loved the scarlet uniforms and the guardsmen loved the girls, and, therefore, the guardsmen very much liked the uniforms which invested them with so much glamour. Perhaps that is only human nature, but I certainly think it helped recruiting. I think a bit of glamour always does help recruiting and that it is worthy of consideration for the Army as a whole because, nowadays, the Army seems to me to be rather drab. A bit more colour would also please and cheer up the people of London who love a show. It would also attract the American and other foreign visitors who cannot see these things in their own country, but who very much enjoy seeing them here. I should like to ask the Secretary of State what his intentions are with regard to full-dress in future. Battalions of guards are existing on the remnants of pre-war stock. There are not nearly enough to go round, and what there are are rapidly wearing out. There are no signs of replacements, let alone of a complete new issue. Those are two reasons for lower recruitment—length of service and the question of dress. There are other and more serious reasons, which have a wider application. The most important is that National Service kills voluntary enlistment. Men have got to join for National Service, so they use the National Service, so to speak, as a sort of try-out period. and they do not like it. I do not think that is because of the point of view put forward by the hon. Member for Aston. (Mr. Wyatt). I do not think they dislike kit inspections, nor do I think they are humiliated by it. We have to remember that the average boy of 18 who joins up is not just untidy; he has a positive genius for untidiness, and it does no harm at all for him to have to put his kit out in proper order. No one in my experience has ever enjoyed the initial period of Army training. It is always the worst time, and the result is that men do not sign on for Regular service afterwards. It is. moreover, the view of many Regular officers with whom I have talked, in contrast with the view expressed by the hon. Member for Preston, South (Mr. Shackleton) in the defence Debate, that National Service men have not, even at the end of 18 months, enough service to make them of much value even as Reservists. Meanwhile, we have to face the fact that there are not enough Regulars to train National Service men efficiently during the 18 months. Everyone is so fully occupied on this individual training that there is hardly anyone really ready to fight. While I appreciate that National Service cannot be abolished at the present time, there is not one of us who wishes to see it become a permanent feature of our national life. In the interests of efficiency and fighting strength it seems most necessary to increase voluntary enlistment by every means at our disposal. And I do suggest that we cannot possibly over-stress the point made by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Carshalton (Brigadier Head) in the Debate on defence—that is the need for better pay and allowances, especially for officers, non-commissioned officers and technicians. I am wondering also, and I am glad here to be able to agree with the hon. Member for Aston, if it would be possible to pay Regulars at a higher rate than National Service men. If that could be done, it would be an inducement to   a man to sign on for Regular service at the end of his conscription period. As the Secretary of State and my right hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot (Mr. Lyttelton) said, there is also need for more married quarters, of which there is a great and serious lack at the present time. I hope hon. Members will not feel I have been too parochial in my remarks in talking about the Brigade of Guards. If I have been I hope I shall be excused, and that it will be put down to pride of regiment. But, in all seriousness, that is not a bad thing. The Germans set great store by it before and during the war. We set great store by it before the war, and we have somehow lost these county associations and pride of regiment and so on. There would be great benefit if these things were encouraged in future. I hope that these few facts and points which I have put forward with regard to Regular Army recruitment generally and the Brigade of Guards in particular may be borne in mind by the Government. After all, I am sure that it is the common desire of hon. Members on both sides of the House that we shall derive the maximum efficiency, strength and security from the large sums of money which are being spent, I think rightly, on our defences at the present time.
