gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to make a maiden speech I request the indulgence of the House. I understand that although maiden speeches should not be controversial, they should nevertheless inform. If I stray into what is considered to be controversial, it is from a desire to inform rather than to be controversial. I should have been delighted to follow the hon. Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Maude), but I think that I had better leave arguments of that sort to another occasion. I represent the constituency of Acton, ably represented in the last Parliament by Mr. Kenneth Baker. He was an extremely active Member on behalf of his constituents, and there are many people in Acton who have good cause to be grateful to him for the efforts he made on their behalf. I can only hope that I can do at least as well in that respect. Mr. Baker was also a very active Member in the House. I hasten to assure the House that I do not intend to introduce a Private Member's Bill to cut income tax, or indeed to increase it. I have no doubt that a person of such distinctive talent as Mr. Baker will not be long absent from the House, and I should not be too surprised if he joined the ranks of hon. Members opposite in the not too distant future. Acton, whilst certainly part of Greater London, is still very much a town on its own. Although now part of the London Borough of Ealing, it is a town which has many of the characteristics of one surrounded by open country. A high proportion of the present population were born in the old borough and work locally. Today the constituency possesses a high degree of social cohesion uncommon in the London area. This civic sense certainly adds to the quality of life, particularly through the many social and cultural institutions which thrive within the borough and produce a strong sense of self-sufficiency. At a time when local government reform is very much in the air, it is very necessary for us to remember that the reality of people's living is more important than the statutory boundaries. Thus, whilst effective and efficient administration is important, we should ensure that this adds to rather than detracts from the  local loyalties and associations which already exist. Once these are eroded, they can be difficult, if not impossible, to reintroduce. There are many aspects of the Gracious Speech which will affect my constituency. It is my intention to refer very briefly to some of them and then to make some major points on the organisation of secondary education, which is still unresolved in Acton and Ealing and which is a subject on which I speak from some personal experience. Acton is an industrial town which historically has serviced the needs of a growing London. However, the increasing speed of industrial change has meant many upheavals and the disappearance of firms of long local standing. Although there is little local unemployment, there is a declining number of jobs and there are some vacant factories. The Gracious Speech refers to the stimulation of competition. This should mean even more takeovers and even more mergers and the elimination of some moderate or small-sized firms which have built up skilled teams of employees over many years. This is not necessarily to the advantage either of Acton as a constituency or of the country as a whole. If many of these units are absorbed too soon in their lives, we may cut off some promising industrial buds before they have a chance to flower. I believe that this lack of certainty is a major factor in the strain of modern life and that we must take account of it. Until quite recently the local authority has been bold and imaginative in its housing policy. I regret to say that over the last few years there has been a change. Acton's share in new municipal building started last year was nine dwellings, a fact that I shall be bringing to the attention of the Minister of Housing and Local Government. Thus, the proposals in the Gracious Speech for the refashioning of housing subsidies will be looked at with particular interest and, indeed, concern, as will the proposals for the sale of council houses. In Acton we have a large estate of well-built council houses in what might be called a ""garden city"" environment. They are particularly beneficial to families with children. Through the building nearby of housing suited to older people,   they can be relet for younger families earlier than otherwise might be the case and can be used time and time again. It would be a great pity if they were lost to the community, and it would mean that the flexible position to which I have referred would no longer apply. I turn now to the question of education and, in particular, secondary education. The London Borough of Ealing, of which Acton is now part, inherited three patterns of secondary organisation from the three former boroughs. By wise long-term planning the old borough of Acton had provided three 11–18 comprehensive schools which served the needs of the entire borough. The Borough of Southall was similarly engaged. However, the Borough of Ealing, which lies between them, had not been moving in that direction. Indeed, it had persisted to the very last in providing school building based on a separatist system. Moreover, the buildings were of such size and distribution that it would be very difficult to organise secondary organisation in any other way. I think that it is to the credit of the present Conservative administration that it intends to go ahead with reorganisation on a comprehensive pattern throughout the new borough and intends to submit a scheme to the Secretary of State before the end of the year. However, this task will be an extremely difficult one, mainly because of the pattern inherited from the former Borough of Ealing, which lies between the two others. Indeed, the current draft scheme—there have been several schemes—is being opposed by the local teachers on the ground that the three-tier system which is proposed would not be educationally viable. It is into this already uncertain situation that the right hon. Lady has, without consultation, dropped her circular. Despite the intentions of the Ealing Council as at present expressed, this will make an uncertain situation even more uncertain. Indeed, it can only do something to increase staff uncertainty. This will have inevitable effects on the quality of education in the schools. If it can do only that in Acton, the circular can certainly do more in other areas where this situation does not at present exist. Because the circular, as I understand it, permits new building on a distinctly  separatist pattern and does not require it to be capable of later change, a local council of the future will, irrespective of political complexion, be denied freedom to change its system. This circular has been described as putting back the clock. I do not think that this is an accurate description, because if a clock is put back it will go on as long as it is wound up. This circular removes the spring of intent; it puts the clock back, and then gums up the works. If in the future a Conservative-controlled authority wishes to go comprehensive, as does mine in Ealing, it may not be free to do so because of a building pattern insisted on by its predecessor. If local authorities are to be free to choose a separatist system—I am not debating that point at the moment—should they at the same time be permitted to restrict the freedom of their successors? As we know that the age of a school building is a great number of years, the answer to that should surely be clear. There is another aspect of education policy expressed in the Gracious Speech that will bring anxiety to Acton. The Gracious Speech places priority, in some cases perhaps justifiably, on primary schools. In the Borough of Ealing the primary school population in 1970 is 27,300. It will rise to 30,200 by 1975, an increase of 11 per cent. The secondary school population now stands at 15,650 and will rise to 20,850 by 1975, an increase of 34 per cent. I understand that the national figures show a similar trend. The primary school population will increase by about 4 per cent., but the secondary school population will increase by about 24 per cent. Perhaps the context in which the word ""priority"" is used in the Gracious Speech will be clarified later. I mention these figures not only out of concern for my constituency but in view of my professional experience. For the last 14 years I have spent much of my time attempting to meet the education and social needs of older children, adolescents and young adults, as a teacher and tutor in secondary schools. I confess that this has been a difficult task, even when provided with a full range of secondary courses available in comprehensive school. The main reason for this being a difficult task has been the fact that the administrative response has not always been geared to the basic educational needs of the pupils, and, thus their learning priorities have not been met. One of my main concerns has been to try to meet the needs of those pupils who have not been proceeding to public examinations. On a national scale, I do not believe that these needs are being met. While I support the raising of the school-leaving age, I very much understand the reasons why many teachers have misgivings about this move. Indeed, I do not believe that even the most enlightened education authorities, let alone the Department, have a realistic appreciation of the real needs and difficulties involved. Nor am I convinced that the activities of the School Council are as realistic in this sense as they should be. I will not pursue this subject on this occasion, but I warn that I shall, as an hon. Member, not let it rest. I come to the problems facing secondary schools in urban areas, and particularly those which do not have the first choice of pupils or staff. There are indications that the difficulties which are caused by socially deprived, unhappy and maladjusted pupils are on the increase. One of the most frustrating and tragic aspects of the job which I am in the process of relinquishing is represented by the difficulties experienced by teachers through being faced by unhappy, sullen and inarticulate young people and the fact that, in the present structure, many teachers are not able to produce an educational response suited to their deepest needs. The result is that a significant number of adolescents are leaving school today inadequately prepared for learning for themselves, which is one of the objects of the exercise. Indeed, it is the main purpose of it. They are leaving with bitterness and with a grudge against adult society. In some schools the emotional drain on teachers is considerable. Even the most sympathetic and experienced of them are liable to be abused, sworn at or even physically attacked. It is not surprising, therefore, that even some of those who are educationally committed are leaving the profession. I hope that the Department and local authorities will take a closer look at some of the problems facing secondary school teachers in particularly the large cities, for we have not got our educational priorities right. If any educational administrator doubts what I say, I suggest he tries teaching in some of these schools for a term. There is, however, a glimmer of hope. The organisation of secondary education on comprehensive lines minimises the risk of the creation of educational ghettos. But we take a long time to learn. I will, therefore, conclude by quoting from the Guardian, not today's national newspaper but a widely-read weekly journal of the 19th century. A leading article read: A town of a few thousand inhabitants requires its grammar school, its commercial academy, and its National School, and seems to separate these three institutions from one another with as much jealousy as could be displayed by guarding the barriers of an ancient aristocracy from democratic assault. The division is perhaps neither liberal nor economic: much more might be effected by a combination of resources, at least in the higher departments of educational work. But the people will not have it so …"". The date was 11th November, 1863. I believe that, by and large, the people of today do wish it so. I thank hon. Members for extending to me their traditional courtesies.
