gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address this House for the first time, and I ask the indulgence of hon. Members. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Leader of the Liberal Party seemed to be in some doubt about what we on this side of the House thought about this Bill. As far as I am concerned, I am not in doubt. I believe that it is not only unnecessary but wrong. It is no part of the duty of the Bank of England to lay down policy, and as my hon. Friend the Member for Bath (Mr. Pitman) pointed out, it has not done so in the past. The function of the Bank of England is to act as the instrument for the execution of the Government's policy. I take it that what is wanted in such an instrument is that it should command general confidence, that it should be efficient in getting things done quickly, that it should not be liable to deflection by private interests and that it should be  adaptable to circumstances as they change. The Macmillan Committee, in 1931—and this went also for those Members who were in favour of nationalisation—reported that the Bank was disinterested, was adaptable and was efficient. I will give their actual words on two of these points. They said that the Bank was aloof and untinged by motives of private gain, and further that it was not distrustful of evolutionary change. I do not know how accurate it would be to describe the history of the last 14 years as a process of evolutionary change, but there have been some changes, and the Bank have had to cope with a good many problems not contemplated by that Committee. They have had to evolve the whole technique of managed money and managed foreign exchanges; they have had to deal with all those heavy problems caused by the wholesale default on Continental bills of exchange. Lastly they have forged and perfected the weapon of cheap money so well that, though over the last seven years our dead-weight debt has gone up by upwards of £15,000,000,000, there has been an actual fall in long-term interest rates over the same period. If that Committee were reporting again to-day, I do not think they would have any cause to change their opinion that the Bank was, in fact, efficient, disinterested and adaptable. Any unprejudiced man would have expected the Bank to act like that, but there are two further points in their conduct to which I would like to draw the attention of the House. The first is that, although the actions of the Bank over this period have necessarily cut across numerous private interests, there has in fact been a total absence of friction and recrimination. The Bank has only had to express a wish in the City for that wish to be carried out, and what you have had is Clause 4, or what the Chancellor says he means by Clause 4, without tears. Secondly, anyone taking to the Bank a problem which is for the Bank to decide, has had an answer in reasonably quick time, and the answer has been one on which it is possible to put some definite meaning and on which one can act. I do not know a record of any Ministry over this period where you have had the same degree of efficiency,   harmony, speed and lucidity. I believe that 20 years hence, this House, reviewing the annual report of the Bank, will find that the Bank, while losing many of its past virtues, has in addition contracted many of the vices of Ministries, and I think history will record that, among many reasons, one at any rate was that in this country at present it is still easier to lead the people than to drive them. I would like to say a word or two about the court of directors. I feel that there has been some danger of confusion in the public mind owing to the way hon. Gentlemen opposite, and most particularly the Chancellor, have thrust forward the highly honouredfigure of Lord Catto, and I have lately been rather surprised—I take it this is not controversial—by the great enthusiasm of hon. Gentlemen opposite for the nobility. It is a very interesting fact that in these negotiations which are now proceeding in America—I suppose the most important ever entered into by this country in time of peace—we are led by three gentlemen two of whom are peers and the third is a cadet of a noble house. It puts one very much in mind of the technique of rioting in certain Eastern cities. I am told that if it is known that the police are going to fire, you lead off with the women and children. I take it that hon. Members opposite feel that the party of order on this side, would be unwilling to fire for fear of shedding innocent blue blood. Be that as it may, in the past the court has been very largely drawn from gentlemen with very great experience of what is going on all over the world in matters of shipping, insurance and international banking generally—in fact everything that goes to make up the total of our invisible exports. In 1929, which I suppose it is possible to say was the last year of normal foreign trading, we drew £195,000,000 from banking, insurance and other commissions and from shipping, and £270,000,000 from our foreign investments. The public mind has been debauched by the swollen figures of war finance, but these amounts were of crucial importance in our balance of payments, and it is vital to get back every penny wecan of that business. We cannot say too often that unless we can get our Balance of payments right, all these schemes of social reform to which we are all committed  are nothing but a series of frauds, and I feel it is open to doubt whether the new gentlemen we shall get—we do not hear much about them; all we hear is of Lord Catto—will bring the same knowledge and sympathy to the task of getting back our invisible exports as the old court would have done. Further, the advice of these very distinguished gentlemen has been obtained remarkably cheaply. I understand that the salary of an ordinary director of the Bank is £500 a year; but overtime is taxed, as we know. Many gentlemen on the court of directors, as I imagine Lord Catto does, pay tax at the maximum rate. If you pay tax at the maximum rate you are actually drawing £12 10s. net per annum. It would be most interesting to know whether the Treasury contemplate getting services equally as distinguished as those we had in thepast for a net wage of less than 5s. a week. The Bank has served us very well—nobody denies that—and before we destroy anything which has done the State some service we want to be sure we are doing the right thing; we want some solid reasons, and I cannot say I have heard any to-night. The main reason adduced was a paragraph in the paper with a handsome V on it. There is no doubt that though many hon. Gentlemen opposite are far too intelligent and well informed to believe the full party mythology about the events of 1931, they are offended by the apparent inconsistency of the private form of the Bank of England. We have had a good deal of this talk about consistency. Consistency is the very last thing in which the people in this country are interested. All they want to know is if something works. If an example of inconsistency is needed, take the classic one which is under our noses. At the other end of Whitehall there is a statue of Charles I; and outside here there is a statue of Cromwell who cut off that king's head. If we can put up with that, we can put up with the private form of the Bank of England as we have done for these 250 years. The only valid reason for this Bill would be a genuine danger that the Bank, for its own private ends, and against the will of the people, could hold this country to ransom. Do hon. Gentlemen opposite really believe that is possible? if they   do—they do not appear to indicate that they do—they must hold a very low view of the courage and competence of Minisers, because to suppose that to-day any private institution can defy Ministers, with all their vast and increasing power, is ridiculous. In any case, it is difficult for anyone who knows anything about the facts to believe in a fratricidal contest between the Bank and the Treasury. I am told that officials of the Treasury in their off moments often refer to the Bank as ""our East End branch."" That, I believe, symbolises the actual relations as they are now and as they were in 1931.
