gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first time that I have had the honour to address the House and to sit in this, the Mother of Parliaments. I must therefore ask for the indulgence that is customarily extended to a maiden speaker—the indulgence that was extended to the hon. Member for Coventry, North-West (Mr. Robinson),   whom I dare to congratulate on his maiden speech. As the new Member for the relatively new seat of Carshalton I am following two predecessors. Part of my constituency was represented by Captain Walter Elliot when he was the Member for the old Carshalton Division. As I am sure many hon. Members will recall, Captain Elliot was an effective and popular constituency Member. My immediate predecessor was Robert Carr. In following him I am seeking to emulate a distinguished and widely respected man. Both in his capacity as a constituency Member and in the performance of his responsibilities in high office he had a wide and well-deserved reputation as a courteous and effective parliamentarian and as a great human being. He has now embarked on yet another stage of his distinguished career. I am sure that the whole House will miss him and will want to join me in sending him our best wishes for his future in another place. The constituency that I have the honour to represent is in many ways a microcosm of British society. In the north, there is the huge St. Helier housing estate, one of the largest estates in the country. It was originally laid out by the then London County Council on spacious and agreeable lines. In the east lie the two proud and independent communities of Beddington and Wallington, each with its own history, special interests and sense of identity. The two communities have one thing in common—namely, the desire to be relieved of the damaging uncertainty that is caused by the continuing threat of the M23. For my part, I should like to see a clear ministerial decision taken not to extend the road north of its present terminal point at Hooley. In the south and west lies Carshalton itself. It is a pleasant residential area with almost a village atmosphere in those parts which are said to date back to Roman times. One of my constituents wrote to tell me that the ancient name of the town is believed to have been Caeshorton, or Caesar's town, on the strength of the belief that the great Roman once pitched camp there. And while on the subject of things Roman, it has been a fascinating experi-  ence to arrive in the House so soon after the Ides of March, at a time when the pro-consuls of the Labour Party have been engaged in successive rounds of their leadership struggle, the latest outcome of which will be known about now. The real tragedy of these events, which can be measured by the 8 per cent. decline in the value of sterling over no more than the last four weeks, has been that, while right hon. and hon. Members opposite have been enjoying the sporting delights of their own brand of Grand National, the country has been deprived of the purposeful and responsible leadership it so badly needs. Turning to the Budget itself, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to make a few simple points which should be more or less non-controversial. In a Budget in which so much attention has been paid to tax relief, it would have been very welcome if the Chancellor had accepted the long-standing case for tax relief on the cost of rail travel to and from work. Inflation has hit the commuters in my constituency particularly hard and such a form of tax relief would have been greatly welcomed. The assorted measures to help small businesses go some way in the right direction, but not far enough to rectify the harsh treatment the Government have already meted out to small businesses and the self-employed sector of the economy. The partial return to common sense on the question of the higher rate of VAT will be welcomed by my constituents whose jobs were put at risk by the 25 per cent. rate of VAT. But how much better it would have been if the Government had adopted the Opposition's advice and announced their intention to return to a single 10 per cent. rate. Among the broader considerations, it is worth emphasising the point already made from both sides of the House—that this is the first conditional Budget in British history. I know of no other country where the Budget is announced in conditional terms, subject to the outcome of negotiations with an outside body. That everyone's take-home pay should be fixed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer is bad enough. To have it fixed by the economic committee of the TUC is really too much. In holding out the prospect of some tax relief in part exchange for higher   nominal wages, the Chancellor runs the risk that the most powerful battalions in the trade union movement will fight for and achieve both, even if it means the rest of the community gets neither. It seems unfair that the people at the bottom of the income scale, whom the Chancellor hopes to keep out of tax altogether, should have the prospect of increased personal and other allowances made conditional upon whatever pay limits the TUC is eventually prepared to accept in the next round of the pay policy. It appears the Government are prepared to see such people—and many others—become the unconsulted and unwilling hostages of the country's most powerful trade union leaders who seldom feel themselves obliged to represent the wider interests of the community as a whole. The Government appear to be going for a combined pay and tax policy which implies real income rises of between 6 per cent. and 10 per cent., depending on individual circumstances. I doubt the wisdom of such a policy which has to run the gauntlet on one side of purchasing the next round of the pay policy at too inflationary a price and on the other of failing to achieve a workable stage 2 with the unions and being thrown back to the even more inflationary situation known as ""free collective bargaining"". This would be an awkward dilemma for any Government, but it is one which this Government have largely brought upon themselves. In any event, there must be serious doubts in all parts of the House about whether the next round of the pay policy will be able to work during a period when market forces and popular expectations will be moving in the opposite direction. In going for the targets he has set for the economy over the next several years, the Chancellor seems to be looking for nothing short of an economic miracle. If the wishes of the occupant of 11, Downing Street guaranteed their fulfilment in the real world, all would be well. But on the basis of the past, rather bitter experience of all parties, it is difficult to see what realistic possibility there can be of this country sustaining an increase in GDP of more than 5 per cent. a year for the next three years and beyond, no matter how often the Government may confess they have learned the error of their previous ways. Even if the Government could achieve such heroic targets, I shudder to think what they would almost certainly mean for the balance of payments and hence our ability to go on borrowing from abroad. The House and the nation are being invited to go on yet another of the Government's miraculous mystery tours, the final destination of which is all too likely to be economic ruin. Speaking on the basis of recent experience at the hustings, I suggest that the sooner the people of this country have the chance to get rid of this Government, the greater will be their chances of saving themselves by their own exertions.
