gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In craving the indulgence of the House on rising to address it for the first time I would ask hon. Members to forgive any errors or failings of which I may be guilty. I intervene with special diffidence in such a broad field as foreign affairs. I want to speak on matters that affect Eastern as well as Western Europe and I am bound to say that I do not see that anything we do in Europe will be of any avail unless we can stop the rot in the Far East. It is reasonable to say that if the successes of democracy in Europe were as striking as those of Communism have been in the Far East of late, then in Europe we should have nothing to worry about. In spite of a stay of some 18 months behind the Iron Curtain, I think there is little that I could tell of the sufferings of the people of Eastern Europe and of their leaders and clergy that has not already been made known. I speak particularly of Roumania, Hungary and Bulgaria. First-hand experience heightens appreciation of the pathetic and desperate longing in those countries for contact with the Western World, however slight. It heightens appreciation of the deep discouragement created by any display of weakness among the free nations. In considering our policy towards these Iron Curtain countries we would appear to have two alternatives. We can either regard them in terms of the old diplomacy, as countries coming within a sphere of influence that is not our own, as pawns and counters in the ""cold war ""; or we can regard them as nations that are an inherent part of the Continent of Europe and whose spirit we must at all costs seek to keep alive even if we cannot now restore their freedom. I suggest that we cannot adopt the former course with a clear conscience. Russian domination may be a fact, but it would be a denial of all that we fought for if we ever gave formal or even implicit acknowledgment of that fact in any settlement that the Western World would seek to make with Soviet Russia. Indeed,  any settlement which acknowledged that fact would be worthless in that it would contain an admission that the Agreement of Yalta had been completely and successfully violated. Surely it must always be our policy to seek to help and encourage by every means those down-trodden peoples and to preserve at least their national identity as they did during centuries of Turkish domination. I exclude, of course, the Czechs and Poles with their different masters. They will need every encouragement if they are to preserve their identity against this much more systematic attempt at permanent domination. Hon. Members might say, ""What can we do about it?"" Even such things as libraries and information centres of Britain and other countries are now banned; all contact is denied with these countries, save one alone, and that is the radio, which is therefore of absolutely paramount importance. Surely every penny spent—and it is not very much in relation to our defence expenditure—on broadcasting to these countries, particularly to the countries of Eastern Europe, must be very worth while. I listened recently to Roumanian and Bulgarian broadcasts of the B.B.C., and I would readily acknowledge that efforts have been made to improve the service. But the scale of this whole campaign is still very small indeed when we remember that it is the only link between the free world and the nations behind the Iron Curtain. I hope that further efforts on a big scale will be made to extend the scope, quality and strength, and particularly the strength of transmission, of these broadcasts in view of the heavy jamming which they have to encounter. Surely we can regard them as a real offensive weapon in the ""cold war."" It is a task that demands the utmost imagination. Could not the Czechs who have just come out of Czechoslovakia by airliner have been put on the air to tell what fears and horrors beset them and made them leave their country? Instead of that, Czech listeners to the B.B.C. a few days ago heard a detailed account of an ice hockey match. We must remember that people have to run a real risk to listen to these broadcasts, and they do listen. What they want to hear are facts about what is going on in the world and also what is going on in   their own countries, because that is entirely denied them through the medium of their own Press. There are many things going on in their own countries which are in no way publicised in those countries. What they need is factual information, and not, for instance, an account of the Oxford and Cambridge boat race. Turning to another point in this problem, I do not think it would be wise to withdraw our diplomatic representatives from Eastern European countries, however much they may be insulted or frustrated, because looking at it from the point of view of the people in those countries, the presence of these diplomatic representatives is at least a minor encouragement and a minor contact; this is also true from our point of view, too. People are cheered to see Western diplomats even if they dare not talk to them. On the other hand, any softness to the governments of Iron Curtain countries will do us nothing but harm in the eyes of their peoples on whom they have been imposed. I would go so far as to say that even in our straitened circumstances of today it should be a matter of principle as well as of sound policy that we should not enter into trade agreements with governments that persecute our business men and insult our diplomatic representatives. I am glad that that principle has been put into effect in the case of Hungary. Surely, we shall gain nothing in respect in any part of the world if we accord their diplomats here any privilege or courtesy that is not accorded to ourselves in their countries. I wish to mention one other important aspect of the problem. If we are to ask these people to resist in their own minds and wills, if not physically, the pressure which is being put upon them, we must see that the West offers a constructive alternative—not merely a return after an interval, however long, to their pre-war status, but admission to a united European community embodying not only political freedom but also economic prosperity, with perhaps even a minimum standard of social services such as the Balkan people did not enjoy before the war. We must recognise that Communism, however detestable, is bound to have an attraction in the long run unless our free system can offer hope of a fuller  life to the citizens of those countries than that which they enjoyed before the war. I am aware that the subject of European unity has been debated considerably today and was also debated at length in the last Parliament, but the impression persists throughout the world, as my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition emphasised, that Great Britain is holding back and is hesitant. I have found it impossible to escape from such an impression in France and in Italy and it is unavoidable anywhere in the United States of America. Surely this feeling could not be so universal unless it had some basis. We all acknowledge the part which the Foreign Secretary has played in the initial stages both of Western Union and of the broader conception of a United Europe, but if we do not continue to lead, then either Europe will not unite at all or, worse still, she will unite without us. Might I, in all deference, suggest that it can be a task of this Parliament, with its even political allegiance, that to co-operate with all Western European Governments without prejudice and whatever their political structure and thereby seek to remove the impression which exists throughout Europe and the world that we are holding back because of any doubt or hesitancy. The Minister of State emphasised that our experts were second to none in their anxiety to forward Western European unity. I hope he will also show that our Ministers are second to none in their eagerness to further this great cause. In particular, I hope that a reasonably generous view, as generous as possible, will be taken by the Government of the project for a European Payments Union and that we shall do all in our power to advance in every practical, way the transferability of European currencies with the maximum practicable sterling participation. It is most necessary that we should now attain greater economic integration, particularly in view of the way the question of competition has arisen this afternoon. It seems particularly important that we should integrate on the question of steel with France, Germany and Belgium at a time when we are threatened not only with immense competition but probably, before long, with over-production. Surely further steps should now also be taken towards military integration in preparations, organisations and especially com-   mand, not only among the five countries of Western Union but among all the Western European countries. This question is coming to the fore in connection with German defence, which makes it particularly vital. Lastly, if the year 1950 can be made to mark the resumption of the full leadership by Great Britain in Europe, to mark the formation of a European Payments Union with sterling participation, and to mark even perhaps the beginning of this suggested Franco-German Union, it will be a year which will have given strength to the West and some hope to the East of our divided Continent.
