gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I regard it as both a privilege and an honour to represent the constituency of Greenock and Port Glasgow. In the past two or three days I have heard several fine, eloquent maiden speeches from both sides of the House and I should be happy just to hang on to some of their coat tails. I have several reasons for saying that it is an honour and a privilege to represent the constituency. Hon. Members may think that I have rather a strange Scottish accent. I was born in Yorkshire and am the son of what is known in Hull as a fish-house lass. My mother's mother was a fishergirl from Aberdeen. I have lived in Scotland, my adopted country, for many years and a number of years ago I had the good sense and intelligence to marry a delightful lass from Govan. It is also a privilege to represent the constituency because I am a former shipyard worker—a shipwright by trade. Greenock and Port Glasgow, as hon. Members know, is steeped in maritime history. Hon. Members will readily recall my predecessor. Convention rightly demands that I should pay a compliment to that man, Dr. Dickson Mabon. For a number of years, he served the people of Greenock and Port Glasgow conscientiously, compassionately and diligently. His resignation from the Labour party aroused considerable controversy in Greenock and Port Glasgow and was regretted by many of the people there. However, on the few occasions that I met him, he treated me with unfailing courtesy and politeness and, as I have said, he represented the constituency very competently. The two towns of Greenock and Port Glasgow are situated on one of the most beautiful estuaries in mainland Britain. I refer, of course, to the Firth of Clyde. For my money, it is much more beautiful than the Firth of Forth or any of the other firths in Scotland. It is certainly far and away more beautiful than the river Humber — my apologies to my hon. Friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull, East (Mr. Prescott). From Whinhill and Lyle Hill there are magnificent views across the water to the Western Highlands. From every street and almost every window in Greenock and Port Glasgow there are delightful glimpses of the Highlands across the water, or beautiful views of the Clyde. However, the people of Greenock and Port Glasgow — in stark contrast to the physical beauty of their setting — face many serious economic and social problems. Unemployment is dismally high, at something approaching 20 per cent. Unemployment among teenagers in Port Glasgow stands somewhere between 75 per cent. and 80 per cent. That is an appalling and depressing level of unemployment. In Port Glasgow, fully 34 per cent. of pensioners depend for their existence on supplementary benefit. Outside Glasgow, Port Glasgow has the highest number of families dependent on supplementary benefit. That is a very sad aspect of the economic and social circumstances prevailing in my constituency, and I cannot see much hope for my people in the Gracious Speech. However, we should not give up all hope. The Gracious Speech states, for example—it is, of course, a statement of intent—that the Government will pursue policies designed to increase economic prosperity and to reduce unemployment. That is why I am here—to see that that intention is fulfilled. The Gracious Speech also talks about the Government's intention to promote growth in output and opportunities for employment by encouraging industry to be adaptable and efficient"". Together, the shipbuilding and marine engineering industries form the economic backbone of Greenock and Port Glasgow. No other community in mainland Britain is so heavily dependent on shipbuilding. In saying that I refer to the whole community and not just to those within the shipyards. We also have a developing local electronics industry. A Labour Secretary of State had the good sense some 30 years ago to persuade IBM to set up a plant in Greenock. However, we are still heavily dependent on shipbuilding and marine engineering. As a former shipwright, I know that Greenock and Port Glasgow have some of the finest shipbuilding and marine engineering skills in Britain in the companies of Scott Lithgow, Ferguson/Ailsa and John G. Kincaid, all of which are part of British Shipbuilders. The men in those organisations face severe problems. Recent proposals from British Shipbuilders called for about 2,100 job cuts in the next 12 months. If that proposal is put into practice, there will be economic and social disaster in Greenock and Port Glasgow and male unemployment will increase to above 45 per cent. I remind the House that shipbuilding is important on three levels. It is important at the local community level. In other words, it is important to the communities in which the shipyards are situated, for reasons bat are self-evident and need not be outlined. Shipbuilding is important to other industries and communities, which are often far removed from our maritime communities. British Steel benefits enormously from orders placed by British Shipbuilders, and the electronics and marine equipment industries also benefit from British Shipbuilders. In 1981, British Shipbuilders placed about £580 million of orders for purchases with other companies. Of those orders, 94 per cent. were placed with United Kingdom companies. Of course, shipbuilding is very important at a national level, in terms of supporting our maritime defence requirements and our merchant shipping industry. Shipbuilding is the other side of the maritime coin to shipping. Therefore, on those three levels it is very important. The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry said that the Opposition should be prepared to sing the praises of British industry, and I am happy to do so. Indeed, I can cite an example, which is a piece of Scottish craftsmanship. I refer to the Iolair, an emergency support  vessel built by Scott Lithgow in my constituency. Iolair is Gaelic for eagle, and that is a fitting description of the role that that emergency support vessel plays in the North sea. That semi-submersible vessel carries out a wide range of functions including scheduled and unscheduled maintenance and inspection of platforms and pipelines. It forms a base for more specialised operations, first aid in emergencies, fire-fighting duties and support and capability for very deep diving by a full saturation diving team. The vessel has four decks and a complement of 224 men. It has four main spaces for generating machinery, workshop facilities, a saturation diving complex and accommodation. There is no doubt that the Iolair is a world beater in advanced maritime technology. A similar vessel was built for Shell in a Scandinavian yard. It took longer to build and, unlike the Iolair, has experienced considerable technical difficulties on station. The Iolair has recently been depicted on a postage stamp within the theme of works of human genius. That is a deserved honour for the men who built such a technologically advanced craft. There is a way forward for the shipbuilding industry. There are two main factors shaping this view—first, the predicted increase in North sea activity and, secondly, the fact that the shipbuilding industry, which historically is a cyclical industry, must have bottomed out. Many maritime experts are now saying that an upsurge in activity within the next few years can be almost guaranteed. My local district council of Inverclyde has produced a document arguing that case, and I commend it to the House. We must emphasise the motto ""Buy British and sail British"". British shipowners must be persuaded, by financial incentive, to buy British—that is, they must place their orders in domestic yards. They should also sail British and should keep their ships under the British flag and crew them with British seamen. We must encourage the development of an enhanced scrap and build programme. The Government should bring forward orders for the Navy to help such yards as Scott Lithgow. The Government should order on spec from Cammell Laird and Scott Lithgow two BS8000 semi-submersible oil rigs. I am sure that such vessels could be sold while under construction. The Gracious Speech outlined a proposal to privatise the royal ordnance factories. That proposal owes more to political dogma that to concern for the public good or the economic and social interests of those working in the ROFs or living in the surrounding communities. The ROFs have a long history of service in supplying arms and equipment to the British armed forces. It cannot be said that they are a burden on the public purse. They employ 20,000 highly efficient and skilled people. A good number of my constituents work in the ROF at Bishopton, and are thoroughly disillusioned with what they believe to be the actions of an English Tory Government. There is no sensible reason for privatising the ROFs. A previous Tory Government, on the basis of the Mallabar report published in 1971, decided to leave them within the public sector under a trading fund. They should remain that way in the interests of the public, the ROF work force and the surrounding communities. Less than 10 per cent. of the voters in Greenock and Port Glasgow voted Conservative at the general election. That is understandable, given the industrial blight that many have suffered in the beautiful setting of the Firth of Clyde. It may be that the stark contrast between that   beautiful setting and the drastic economic and social circumstances of those living in Greenock and Port Glasgow will be lessened if and when Scotland has its own Parliament.
