gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a Yorkshireman, I am honoured to represent a constituency within a great Yorkshire city. Bradford is renowned not only throughout the length and breadth of the land but throughout the world. The contribution made by the citizens of Bradford to our industrial  effort is considerable, not only in the wool textile industry which earned £155 million in exports last year, but also in the field of engineering and many other diverse industries. I rejoice with my hon. Friends who represent Bradford that the Prime Minister will be installed as the Chancellor of the new University of Bradford on 5th November. This is a fitting tribute to a great Yorkshireman by a Yorkshire city. Our university will, I am sure, make a notable contribution to the industrial and academic life of the city and the region, continuing the valuable work which it commenced as an institute of technology. My predecessor in this House, Arthur Tiley, was well respected on both sides. I am sure that he was in all respects an excellent Member. He served this House as a managing trustee of the Members' Contributory Pension Fund, and for his special abilities in this field and for his contribution we are all grateful. He had a reputation as a hard working constituency man and I shall do well to try to emulate his example. Bradford has a strong feeling for politics, and many a lead has been given by the City of Bradford. It is a city which has never been afraid to venture into new fields or to try new methods. To speak, therefore, in this House as a representative of Bradford on what I regard as a vital matter of reform and modernisation of Parliament is in keeping with the tradition of this City. The presentation of the Parliamentary Commissioner Bill is in itself praiseworthy. Not only is it a redemption of yet another election pledge which we on these benches gave; it is a bold step in modernisation and an acceptance of greater humanity in Government. In our system surely it is our responsibility as back benchers to see that this is so, and at the same time to recognise that for the good of all there can never be too many checks on government. The Swedish Parliamentary Commissioner, appointed over 150 years ago, was, I understand, appointed against the wishes of the Government of the day. It is heartening, therefore, that this Measure should come to us as a Government Bill. The appointment of a Commissioner will, I believe, strengthen rather   than weaken the power of the back bencher, and, with it, the citizens' rights. In my very short experience in this House I recognise, as the Study of Parliament Group said, that Members cannot themselves effectively pursue the ramifications of individual cases through the departmental machinery, or themselves check that official explanations, in cases of alleged grievances, are reasonably based on complete and accurate information. That a citizen need not bring a matter through his own Member is important and removes immediately a problem which well might arise from the citizens' point of view. We must never lose sight of the fact that the whole purpose of the Bill is to enable investigation of administrative action taken on behalf of the Crown. I shall I not be alone in wishing that this Bill gave to the Commissioner greater powers and a wider field of investigation, and within reasonable time such a demand can reasonably be made. I am persuaded, however, that experience will be the great teacher and legislator in this matter. This Bill falls far short of the powers and field of the Danish Commissioner but here, too, experience in a limited field has been the forerunner of wider legislation. We start in the knowledge that the appointment will in itself be a great deterrent, knowing that there is such a check on the abuse of power. I find Clause 10 somewhat vague, concerning the laying of special reports before the House and the provision for an annual report. The assurance given by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister on 4th August, that it is the intention to appoint a Select Committee, will be widely welcomed and I am sure that others will join me in hoping that we can still be more enlightened on this point. We are at a stage in matters of reform where opportunities to introduce legislation of this nature, fully in line with the sincere desire to modernise, should not be lost for one moment in relation to this piece of legislation which in itself is a great step forward. That this Bill restricts investigation of any action taken by a Government Department or other authority to which the Bill applies, but specifically exempts a local authority, is undoubtedly one of the most criticised aspects of the Bill. My right hon. and hon. Friends on the Front  Bench are well aware of this, as they are equally aware that perhaps the greatest number of complaints arise out of actions by local authorities. I am sure the House will emphasise this fact again today. For my part, I am prepared to gain from the initial experience of the operation of the Measure as it is presented, but I believe there will be a growing demand for early widening of powers. I hope that in the winding up of the debate we shall be enlightened on the interesting point made twice by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister at Question Time in August, that there is nothing to prevent others, particularly the major local authorities, from setting up their own machinery, instead of having it done centrally for them. Without expanding the argument, I feel that many will share the view that there will be widespread dissatisfaction if we leave this matter for individual authorities to investigate complaints against themselves. This is precisely the atmosphere that many wish to avoid. It is because we have trust in the nature of the appointment by this House that such a solution at local level would be widely unacceptable. I trust that experience will quickly enable us to grant powers to the Commissioner to initiate inquiries on his own initiative—such matters as may be revealed in the Press, and which may be considered by a Select Committee as suitable for investigation. As time and experience proceeds, the Commissioner will, no doubt, find it essential to enlarge his senior staff, or it may, indeed, be considered advisable to appoint a deputy Parliamentary Commissioner. Would it not be worth while considering the appointment of a woman to such a post? I suggest, with respect to the womenfolk, that not less than 50 per cent. of the grievances will emanate from the fair sex. I am enthusiastic to see this experiment get off the ground. I shall be tolerant about the initial inadequacies, but this must be more than a mere token of modernisation; it must be—and I am sure the House wishes this—a real determination to see grievances investigated and in all cases to see that justice is done. We surely want to see the office of Parliamentary Commissioner respected. We shall want to see that Ministers do not   interpret too widely Clause 11(3) which contains the expression: … would be … contrary to the public interest. This exercise is surely for the public interest, for respect for Government and for respect for Parliament and Parliamentary institutions. It must be democratic and, again, it must be seen to be democratic.
