gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is the generous tradition of this House that indulgence is granted to someone who speaks here for the first time, and in asking for that indulgence on this occasion, I particularly recognise the generosity of the House, because I have chosen a controversial subject on which to make my first intervention. Before I turn to the few points I want to make, I should also like to say that I am very conscious of the privilege of following one who represented the same constituency as myself for seventeen years—Sir Toby Low, as he then was, now Lord Aldington, who, I know, was greatly liked and respected in the House, as, indeed, he was in his own constituency. If I do not follow immediately into the economic niceties and details of which we have heard today, it is first because it is very difficult for anyone on a back bench to do so with effect, and because it is surely difficult to do so in a short intervention. I should, therefore, like to deal with the broader generalities of the problem before us. I am sure that if there is one thing, above all, that we as Members of the House of Commons should do, it is to try to keep this debate on a level of rational discussion, and to keep out of the paths of sentiment, tradition, and, if I dare say so, even history, because these may very well be very bad guides to what our future course should be. The most interesting and perhaps the unique feature of the Six coming together is just the very fact that they came together without the pressure of war, and, indeed, without economic pressure. All the statistics that are used on so many occasions try to show that the Common Market has made little or no difference in Europe, but we should all know that the rising growth of inter-Six trade really shows something else as well. It shows that six nations were prepared to sit down round a table and make a rational decision when there was no real economic pressure upon them to do so. This is not necessarily true of ourselves, but it must, surely, be the spirit in which we ourselves have to enter the negotiations, and if we do not we should make the gravest mistake. The only occasion on which a European country turned to recriminations within itself was a debate in France between 1953 and 1954, when France had suggested the creation of a European army. It was France's own suggestion. I understand from others that, when the argument was finished and the debate had been concluded, in the end, no one was able to discuss the problem in any terms that made sense at all, and, of course, France turned back on herself and turned away. In 1955 and 1956, the negotiations had to start again. I hope very much that this country, during the coming winter, will not make that mistake. Having said that, and I am firmly of the opinion that we should go in, and also firmly of the opinion that the economic problem in the long run is less serious than the political problem we have to face, and certainly the least important for Our own country, I must add that if one does not go into details of the economic problem, one cannot get it into perspective by looking at it in very broad terms. It is certainly true to say that failure to achieve in this country the target of an increase of 4 per cent. per annum, which is a high target, is in itself more important than the economic consequences of going into the European Community, and we should understand that. It is true also that there are terms upon which we cannot go in, and the difference between the two sides of the House today is on what those terms are. I should only like to say that, in regard to those terms, and I expect that I am probably prepared to go considerably further than some hon. Gentlemen opposite, I think that it would be a tragedy if, in the end, our negotiators were driven to desperation over a transitional provision. In the end, it will seem to be appalling that we should be kept out of Europe because demands are made that we should accept conditions now, when, in the end, we are quite prepared to accept the position as it will be in 1970. Of course, agriculture comes immediately to mind, but that, I hope, will not, in the end, prove a barrier to our entry. I have said that there are terms on which we cannot go in. May I conclude what I want to say about the economic prospects, before I turn to the political ones, by saying that it has been said, and said with some force, that the terms of our entry are fifty-fifty. Personally, I do not agree that these are correct figures. I think that, for reasons which are often given a great deal of weight, these figures very much underestimate the advantages of this country going in. I am not talking about the question of a larger market, which may be controversial: I know the arguments about that. I am not just discussing the problem of the dynamic economic growth which we know there is in Europe. I am discussing the psychological approach, which is so important. To speak to the young executives of, say, a chemical firm—and living in Cheshire. I find it difficult to go out and not talk to executives of chemical firms— is certainly an eye opener. There is no doubt at all that it is not just the young people, but that all in the growing industries find that this is a challenge which is creating excitement and hope among those in that type of industry. If, in the end, they are frustrated I am sure that they will turn back in both disappointment and distress. There is a great deal to be said for the view that will make a great difference to exports. I am not going to say that exporting is fun. It may or may not be —I do not know—but, certainly, it is very difficult to explain in economic terms why the will to export, and the excitement which is created by these  opportunities, is so very important. But it is, as one can see in a firm which has a keen, eager export manager really working hard and who is interested in Europe. As I have said, I think that the economic problem which faces us, important though it is, important as are the details of our entry, the details which are being analysed and looked at and looked at hard, in the end is not the really important part what matters to us today. No matter what happens—and I think that every Member of the House will agree with this—this will not remain a happy commercial club. This will not remain a small economic club. That is absolutely certain. This House, which most jealously guards democratic rights, will not let undemocratic decisions go unwatched and unhindered, so it may well be that from this House and from this nation the demand may come for some form of political integration in the end. If we turn our back on Europe at the moment that will not stop integration and the changes which will come in Europe. It will not make all that difference to Europe, whether we go in or not. They are going on. We have a chance, if we get in, of taking part in the negotiations which will, no doubt, proceed in the next year or so. If we do not go in, it is said, we can still remain in N.A.T.O. I accept that. We have got to. We cannot opt out of the European problems and we cannot stand back from Europe. We have to remain in Europe Over the years the same questions will be asked which were asked last week, ""Were we consulted?"" We consulted only those who have power to change our minds. Of course, our troops will be in N.A.T.O. and, of course, they may be used. Our troops will be used, but shall we be consulted about that if we stand out? Surely this is the real crux of the matter. If we want to have power in the world, and want to influence the changes which are bound to come in Europe, the only place in which we can do it is in Europe. Suppose, for instance, we wanted to be consulted about the German problem and especially the Berlin problem. We can only do it if we are in Europe. It is for that reason that I very much support the efforts of the Government in Brussels. I wish the Lord Privy Seal well, and I hope that he comes back with an agreement which we can accept.
