gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This debate proves beyond doubt the value of Private Members' time for drawing attention to the need for and obtaining legislation dealing with matters affecting the health and welfare of the community. This Bill is a good Bill, and so far as we can see there is not much doubt that it will at least get a Second Reading. It is right that it should, because it follows upon other legislation dealing with poisons and other matters affecting safety in the home. There is nothing unique or very novel about this type of Measure. The only thing to be  proud of is that it has been introduced in Private Members' time and has the benefit of the full support of the Government. I do not agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Tonbridge (Mr. G. Williams) that this sort of thing could be dealt with adequately by publicity. Sweet as are the uses of publicity, they are sometimes limited in their effect. What I do think, though, is that once the House has given a lead to the country by requiring these appliances to be guarded adequately in future, that will form a proper basis of publicity for safety in the home. I do not think that we could get the safety in the home at which we are aiming this afternoon from publicity alone—and I speak with some knowledge of the subject. I am exercised especially by the fact that the Bill deals only with new appliances being sold in the shops. I conjure up the picture of the many hundreds of thousands of appliances, such as I have in my own home, which are not worn out and will be in use for some years yet, which are not guarded and will not come within the provisions of the Bill. From publicity in the OFFICIAL REPORT and elsewhere, I hope that the lead which is being given in this debate today will bring to the attention of parents the value of guarding those appliances they have already in their homes, which will not be difficult. Last night I was looking at some of the new appliances which in the course of construction will be fitted with a guard. In addition, there were other guards that could be fitted quite easily, which it would be almost impossible for a child to detach. Although the appliances with guards attached cost a matter of a few shillings more, they are not beyond the purse of most people, especially as they are likely to last for a number of years. I was assured by one of the leading makers that the extra cost of constructing appliances with guards attached is very small. Dealing for a moment with guards which must be affixed, I hope that our people, having the lead which Parliament will in due course give by law, will play their part in attaching these affixable guard to appliances already in their homes, because it is possible that the number of appliances sold in the future   may be fewer in the next few years, and we may find that We have scotch'd the snake, not killed it. We are here dealing only with the small proporton of fires and appliances which will be in use for the next few years, and, apart from what we may do today, I hope that this debate will bring home to parents the necessity to take adequate precautions with the fires they have. Reference has been made to the loss of heat consequent upon using these guards. The statistics I have show that there is a loss of two degrees of temperature at a distance of two feet from the fire after 20 minutes use if there is a light fireguard in front of the appliance. Speaking as a man with three children, I am certain that most parents would be prepared to sacrifice two degrees of comfort in temperature in order to make certain that the fire was adequately guarded. Many years ago I had a similar experience to that recounted by my hon. Friend the Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Nabarro). I know not whether he is wiser than me or vice versa, but on the occasion to which I refer I was wearing a dressing gown, and there was no doubt about the end of it reaching the fire. The dressing gown went up in a sheet of flame, and being an adult I was able to deal with the situation; but had it been a child there is no doubt that there would have been severe burning. From those two examples, and many others of which no doubt hon. Members have knowledge, it is obvious that the number of accidents, fatal and otherwise, which occur from this cause are far too frequent to be ignored, and for that reason alone this Bill is to be welcomed. There is one rather sad feature when considering the sort of things which become inflamed by these fires. It is a known and perhaps rather dangerous fact that usually the prettier the clothes the more inflammable they are. There are no statistics about the inflammability of the clothing we wear, but it is in winter when women and girls (especially young children) are likely to be wearing party frocks, and that is just the time when these appliances are in use in order to provide adequate heating in the home. So there are the concomitants of the tragedies which very often take place: the light,  airy frocks worn by the children, the temperature at such a degree that the fire must be put on, a concourse of children in the room and the fire gets touched and knocked over, or somebody's frock goes up in flames. Again I stress the importance of this Bill in helping, in the future, to show what people can do in their own homes at a very small cost. I am sure it is only a question of knowledge because parents would not begrudge a few shillings in ensuring the safety of their children. In this, as in so many other aspects of life, it is only a question of bringing to the attention of parents the necessity of safeguarding the health and welfare of their children. I hope that the House will give this Bill all support, but I trust this will not be the end of this type of legislation. I hope that in future we shall see further progress from the developments and research being conducted into the use of coal and other solid fuel fires. But at least at this stage I think that those who have spent some hours in this House in listening to and taking part in this debate will feel that they have made some contribution to the happiness and safety of the children.
