gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my maiden speech. In the Gracious Speech reference is made to rising production,   and I wish to refer to certain matters which, in my opinion, have a detrimental effect upon coal output. I wish, first, to refer to the unwarranted criticism which has from time to time been levelled at our miners and at nationalisation itself. I want it to be understood that the miners will at all times welcome criticism which is objective in its character. However, in the coal fields, we have invariably found that the criticism which has been levelled at us in the first place has been from people who know little or nothing about the industry, and, second and most dangerous of all, from people who have never believed in nationalisation, whether it be of the coal mines or any other branch of industry. These people have tried to inculcate into the hearts and minds of the public and the miners the belief that nationalisation of the mining industry is bound to fail in the long run. I want to tell the House where the miner stands in this respect. The miner realises that he has never had greater economic security and better conditions of employment than under nationalisation. Also, he knows that if through any fault of his, by any means whatever, nationalisation of the mines should fail or even falter in its path, he would be betraying everything which his forebears fought and sacrificed for in their bitter struggle against the coal owners in the past. It is well known that miners and ex-miners may become very emotional when talking about their own people and their industry—goodness knows, the people in the industry often have every reason to be emotional—but I contend that everyone, particularly critics of the miners, should bear in mind the precise contribution that the miners have made to their industry. Ever since 1941 the miner has heard the cry ""Increase your production; intensify your efforts."" He was asked to do it, first, to meet the demands of our war effort and, second, to meet the demands of our expanding economy, and he did that while adapting himself to new ideas and ever-changing methods of production. If the facts are examined, it will be found that the miners have increased their production even when the manpower in the industry has been gradually dwindling. Last year, nearly 200,000 men worked Saturday shifts. This was done during the winter months as a result of the agreement which was reached. Even during the summer months, thousands of our men worked Saturday shifts. Working a Saturday shift does not mean that the pit closes down at 11 or 12 o'clock on the Saturday morning, and that all are free to go their own way. It means that thousands of miners go in during the Saturday afternoon, the Saturday night, the Sunday morning and the Sunday night, because the pit has to be prepared for the following week. The country ought always to bear in mind the price the miners have to pay to win the coal which is so essential to meet the needs of our economy. Last year, 480 miners were killed in the pits and 1,850 were seriously injured. It should be remembered that many of the seriously injured will never do another day's work in their lives. Also, 214,000 were injured and were absent from work for three days or more. There is now the ever-increasing scourge in our industry, pneumoconiosis. This terrible disease is spreading year by year and the number of men certified as suffering from it is increasing. In 1952, there were 3,143; in 1953, 4,003; in 1954, 4,449; and in 1955, 4,993. Is it any wonder that men are leaving the industry? Since nationalisation nine years ago, 587,000 have left the mines. The moral is that the men working in the industry should be encouraged, and not discouraged, if we want the coal which is so vital to us. I am sure that the Minister of Fuel and Power will appreciate that point. There is another aspect to which I wish to draw attention. We are all aware that Britain's first nuclear power electricity generating station at Calder Hall, Cumberland, is now feeding electricity into the national grid. There is no doubt that this is a startling development which definitely marks for Britain the crossing over the threshold into the atomic age. While, like everyone else, I am fully aware of the possibilities in this respect, I deprecate the announcements made by some people, supposed to be experts on the question, who seem to soar into the realms of science fiction fantasy and do not face up to present realities. I am given to understand that it is expected that within the next ten years nuclear power stations will provide electricity equivalent to 6 million tons of coal a year, and by 1975 the equivalent of 40 million tons of coal a year. I appreciate that this will be a valuable and positive contribution to the nation's fuel and power needs, but it will still fall a long way short of what is required if our industrial production is to rise at the rate of the 2–3 per cent. a year needed to maintain and expand our economy. The point that I want to make is that it must be realised by everyone that Britain's most important source of power, for this century at least, will still be coal, and all those who are looking at coal through spectacles covered with atomic energy dust should realise that they are doing a disservice to the nation by trying to suggest that the atomic energy age is just round the corner. It may be many years before that stage is reached. These people are also doing a disservice to the country if, in their fantasy, they attempt to sow in the minds of the young men already in the industry the seeds of insecurity. If they do that, we shall never get the young men to remain in the industry, because they will not be sure about their career, and we shall not get the young men we so very badly need to enter the industry. It must be remembered, however, that if, tomorrow, we had as many as 25,000 men available, we could put them straight into our coal mines. I am very much perturbed about one section of the community, the old-age pensioners, of whom there are thousands in my constituency who have spent a lifetime in the pits. Their position is not just a political matter. I believe that there are hon. Members in all parts of the House who realise that there are thousands of these old people who are today in dire need and extreme poverty. It is not my intention now to enlarge upon the needs of the old-age pensioners, but I hope that in the course of the discussion on our economic situation and the social conditions of our people, the needs of those old people will be brought very forcibly before this House.
