gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a maiden speaker I believe that I should make some remarks about my constituency. First, however, I feel that I should say how much I have enjoyed the two speeches that have been made so far—my right hon. Friend's for its content, which was most pleasing to us, and the speech of the right hon. Member for Barnsley (Mr. Mason), because it took me back to the days when as a small child I was taken to a revivalist meeting in a Welsh valley. There was exactly the same tang to it. Regrettably, it said nothing—and in exactly the same style—that had not been heard before. What sticks in my mind about my constituency, as I am sure stuck in the mind of my predecessor, Mr. Newens, a most energetic and hard-working Member, is its sheer size. It has the second largest electorate in the country. It is interesting to reflect that the hon. Member for Billericay (Mr. McCrindle) and I represent in this place almost as many people as are represented by some of the delegates to the United Nations. I am prompted to remember the wise words of another of my predecessors, Sir  Graeme Finlay, who was wont to say that the constituency had everything except a shipyard, a fishing industry and a coalmine. The Lee Valley regional park is spreading and doing a fine job. Before long with the emphasis on water as a source of amusement and recreation, if not of refreshment, I hope I shall have a boatyard or two if not a shipyard, certainly better fishing, and I hope that I shall be excused from the coalmine. Epping is an enormous constituency, with a new town, soon to be a fast-growing new town again, and small market towns in one of which I live. It includes Waltham Abbey, a most splendid building, with the most splendid choir singing the greatest sacred music in the South of England. It has an electorate of 36,000 in the Greater London area. I often wonder whether I am the only hon. Member with 36,000 London electors who has a strong agricultural and horticultural interest in his constituency. I should like to comment further about my constituency, but this is not the time for it. The debate promises to have too much interest for us all. I sincerely regret that hon. Members opposite, who are in such a high state of indignation about a political decision, should have chosen to go outside and discuss it with those who want to take direct industrial action about political decisions which should properly be discussed in this House. As a member of the British Airline Pilots Association of 17 years' standing—and as I spoke only yesterday to the Chairman of the British Airline Pilots Association in B.O.A.C.—I can say that they are not interested in the sort of thing that is going on out there. They deeply resent any suggestion that they would be a party to industrial action when the place for these matters to be discussed is here. I am not talking about legitimate industrial action for purposes of legitimate industrial ends. I am speaking of industrial action for political ends. The remarks made by the right hon. Member for Barnsley implying that the Airline Pilots Association sympathised with such action should be withdrawn. Before we are carried too far into this, we should also remember that the airline industry situation which faced the Government on coming into Power was different in degree from anything we had seen   before. The position in the past has always been that the private sector has been discriminated against right, left and centre. I regret that it has been discriminated against, by Governments of left and right and, had the right hon. Member for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Grimond) been called to form a Government, I am sure that it would have been discriminated against by a Government of the centre. During those years of discrimination the private sector was always denied a cut of any profitable scheduled services. Thus, it developed different areas of work. It developed originally, and became very dependent upon, troop charters and War Office charters for dependants. That business withered, as did our bases overseas. The private sector then developed, at great expense and effort and in the teeth of opposition from the air Corporations, the inclusive tour holiday market. Not only did that become a profitable business but it brought sunshine holidays to many millions who had previously known only Blackpool. It went on from there to develop to some extent the business of running emigrant charters from this country to Australia and New Zealand. That is the only side of the private sector business which benefits when right hon. Gentleman opposite sit on this side of the House. As we know, that is when emigration figures go up. These have been the mainstays of their business. They have always weathered the storm up to now. Many of the storms have been caused by gusts of wind coming from this place. But on this occasion they were faced with a new situation. They were faced with a Government that was determined to starve them sooner or later into submission. The Edwards Report came out and as has has been explained today, the Government said: ""Certainly, we would love a second force airline. Have a second force airline. But you cannot have any routes to run it on."" The example of the Egyptians refusing straw for bricks has stood a long time, but this was even refusing the clay for the bricks. It was a statement to the independent industry: ""Go ahead and die, but we will give you one word:  take your own time over it, so long as you hurry.""
