gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I ask for the indulgence which is usually extended on such occasions, and I will try to match that courtesy by the avoidance of anything controversial. That may be difficult in this instance, but I trust that I shall impose no undue strain on the generosity and forbearance of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen. As one whose election reversed the representation of Kirkdale, I should first like to pay my tribute to my predecessor, who served the constituency in this House for ten years, and during that period worked assiduously on behalf of his constituents. Although at times he expressed views to which I could not subscribe, I am the first to recognise the honesty and sincerity of his motives. In making my modest contribution to this debate, I will try to confine myself to facts and to relate those facts to the constituency which I represent. Kirkdale is not a municipal entity, but a section of Liverpool, controlled by the city council. It is for the most part a congested residential area, and it contains much property scheduled for slum clearance. The inhabitants of these clearance areas have had a raw deal up to now, as the fact that they are living in dwellings of sub-standard quality has not of itself qualified them for consideration under the city's housing programme. The houses for the most part have gone to others, whose claims on general grounds have been considered more pressing, and the claims of those living in slum areas have been postponed pending the formulation of a slum clearance scheme. It is most gratifying that that problem is now being tackled, and half of Liverpool's building programme will in future be devoted to slum clearance. From that point of view, this Bill is to be distinctly welcomed, for not only are the subsidies maintained for houses built under slum clearance schemes, but they are substantially increased for multi-storeyed flats on cheaper sites, which must be a feature of Liverpool's future programme. This Bill will not operate evenly over the whole country, and the House may find it of interest to know how it will affect Liverpool as perhaps indicative of its impact on other large municipalities of the same character. It has been   assumed in some quarters that the whole burden of the increased interest rates and the reduction in subsidy will fall on houses which are built in the future. I submit that that would be quite indefensible. The essence of the matter is that there should be a spread of the burden over all the houses owned by the municipality. I hope I am not entering the field of controversy if I support the figures given by my right hon. Friend. Indeed, I must go a little further and give figures even more favourable than those which he mentioned. In Liverpool, the effect of the reduction of subsidy will be very slight if the spread is made. Liverpool Corporation owns 60,000 houses and has a building programme at the moment running at 3,000 houses a year. At least half of those 3,000 houses will continue to qualify for subsidy and only 1,500, at the most, will lose the subsidy. If that loss of subsidy is spread over the whole of Liverpool's housing pool, the average increase in rents will be l½d. per week in the first year and 7½d. at the end of five years. The position is even better than that, for Liverpool. like all prudent corporations, has budgeted well in advance for its housing requirements, and for a long time to come, probably two years, the bulk of its housing will continue to receive subsidies at the old rate. The effect of the reduction of subsidy in Liverpool will therefore be slight indeed. Interest rates form a relevant subject. It is not mentioned in the Bill, but as on previous occasions it has been the custom to increase the subsidies to reflect any rise in the interest rates, and as on this occasion the subsidy has been reduced, I think it is pertinent to mention the subject. It has been suggested—and I do not dispute the figure—that the increase in interest rates this year entails a rise in the cost of a house of £17 per annum. In Liverpool that would affect the whole building programme of 3,000 houses a year, but if the spread were made it would mean that the average increase in rent of Corporation houses in Liverpool would be 4d. a week in the first year and Is. 8d. a week at the end of five years. It is therefore fair to say that the effect of the increased interest rates and the reduction in subsidy for Liverpool need not be more than 2s. 6d. per week per  house at the end of five years and only 6d. a week immediately. Even if all the subsidies were abolished except those for slum clearance, the average further increase in rents for the first year would be only 2d. per week and 10d. per week at the end of five years. The effect of the Bill on Liverpool will therefore be very slight, and if, as I think, it will encourage slum clearance it is to be welcomed. There has been a request in some quarters to introduce differential rent schemes. I do not want to go into the merits or demerits of such a suggestion this evening, except to say that I can foresee certain difficulties in its application. I am more concerned with the removal of some of the differentials which at present exist. Of Liverpool's 60,000 houses, over 40,000 were built between the wars. They are not substantially of a lower standard than those being built today. The majority of them are in mature estates conveniently placed near the centre of the city and the rents are about 14s. a week, including rates. I ask hon. Members to contrast that with the new houses being built on the raw estates on the outskirts of the city. These are being rented at 28s. a week after having attracted the full benefit of the subsidy. Not only have the tenants of these houses in the new estates to pay the higher rents, but in many cases they also have to incur considerable extra expenditure to get to and from their places of work. Surely, in the name of justice and common sense, there should be some equalisation of those rents, raising them for older houses and reducing them for new houses. If that were done there would be no need for a means test except in the very limited number of cases of people who plead that they could not afford any increase at all. On the other hand, there would be an overdue. measure of relief for those people who in many cases today find it extremely difficult to pay the high rents charged for the new houses. Although I said that the effect of the Bill and even of the higher interest rates will not be onerous in Liverpool, provided the burden is spread, I should not like the House to assume that the housing situation in Liverpool is good. From the recent Command Paper 9593, it will be seen that Liverpool has the largest   proportion of unfit houses of any city in the country. It is 43 per cent. of all permanent houses, compared with 33 per cent. in Manchester and 16 per cent. in Birmingham. I express the hope that my right hon. Friend will use the full discretion given to him in the Bill and, in particular, under Clause 5, and will make every possible concession to Liverpool so that the city can continue its efforts to provide decent housing accommodation for its long-suffering inhabitants. I am most grateful to the House for its indulgence.
