gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is my maiden speech, and I know that those things that were told me about its being an awful ordeal are only too true. I know from my brief experience, however, that I will have the sympathy of the House. I hope to make a contribution, not by virtue of what I have heard, but by virtue of what I have seen. Two weeks ago I returned from Germany, where I had the opportunity in Berlin of seeing conditions at first hand. What is more interesting probably is that I was in the Russian zone, and I believe that I am the only Member in the House who has been there. Berlin is a city of ruins in which, it is estimated, there are 3,000,000 people. My chief concern is in regard to the young children, who are too young to know what the war was about. When I was in Berlin I had the privilege of going among the school children in the schools with the Minister of Education, and it was alarming to hear from them what they were expected to live on. Very few of them had anything for breakfast except one or two pieces of dry bread and ersatz coffee without any milk or sugar. The midday meal generally consisted of one course of either very weak soup or of potatoes only. The inquiry showed that for months none of them had had milk or eggs, and there is no sweet ration. The children of Berlin are starving; there is no other word for it.  I have been listening to some awful tales of what might be, but I want to give an aspect of the British sector of Berlin which exists and is really horrible. I am now referring to the refugee camps. I saw those camps and was in them late at night. What did I see? In one of them I saw the refugees trying to sleep, some of them sitting on the stairs, some lying in the corridors and some in tiny rooms containing 40 to 50 people packed like herrings. There were little or no sanitary arrangements and the stench was terrible. In those rooms was a big percentage of  children one, two and three years of age. I was informed that in three months 84 children had been born under those conditions. The conditions were bad enough, but what of the food? I was informed by the German Red Cross that they had one meal per day which consisted of soup with bread. If they were lucky and there was any bread left over, they got it in the evening with a beverage without milk or sugar. On the night I happened to be there there was no bread left, so they did without. One of the camps was in an old prison in which there were 12,500 refugees. Many of them were young children under four. Never in my life will I forget that horrible picture, and when I left the camp I smoked a cigarette for the first time in five years to try and get rid of the terrible smell. I am not going to suggest that we in this country should cut our rations to assist, because. I am satisfied that we have reached the low water mark. I recognise, in speaking with other experts, that the problem in Berlin is only a very small part of an enormous problem which extends over Holland, parts of France, Poland, Russia, Eastern Germany, Yugoslavia, Hungary and other countries. Yet I believe that if we will, we can help. My suggestion to the Government is that they should take immediate steps to reduce the horrors of the refugee and transit camps, and also, that there should be additional food for the children in Berlin. I specify Berlin because I found the children in the country districts looking remarkably well. The children in Berlin are the problem, and that may apply to other large towns which have been devastated. These children in Berlin are not German children; they are purely and simply children, and all decent people of any civilised country are looking forward to the day when we will be able to educate them to take their place in a decent world. But I suggest with all the emphasis that I possess that it will be useless to send textbooks and teachers to educate those who manage to live when they have in their minds the horrors of seeing young children slowly and surely dying. There is another way in which the Government can help in Berlin. It is in the matter of fuel. The people of Berlin have been told that there is no coal for them this winter, and they know that that is correct. There is fuel on the edge   of Berlin in the enormous forest that reaches to the edge of the city. I have watched the German people trying to get that fuel for the winter, but, although they walk about, they are listless and have no interest in the future whatever. Their efforts to get timber into their little wagons are ludicrous. What are needed are the tools to fell the trees and transport to carry the wood. I believe that that can be done, for I saw many lorries lying idle. At the big football match at the Stadium I saw hundreds of Army lorries. I believe that in that one direction alone a big difference can be made this winter, because if they have fuel they can get heat to warm their famished bodies, they can boil water—and the water is now contaminated and may be the means of conveying typhus—and in addition their lives can be made less horrible by the possibility of drying their wet clothes, because they must walk—there is no transport. One other suggestion I would like to make is in connection with awakening the Germans to a sense of their own particular problems. Greater encouragement should be given to the trade union movement in Berlin. When I was there, trade unionists could certainly operate in the British sector, but, until two weeks ago, they could operate only provided that they did not interest themselves in hours or wages. There seems to be very little else to make their functions useful. I believe also that if it is desired to get the Germans working, and provide supplies for the Ruhr as well as to Berlin, some of the Nazis now in power must be removed from office to show that we really are going to clean up the evil Germany of past days. Now for the Russian zone. I want to tell my hon. Friends that I did not get into the Russian zone very easily; in fact, I should not have got in at all by orthodox methods. I got in by unorthodox methods in spite of much good advice as to what would happen to me if I did. In fact, for a time I believed that advice and ""got the wind up,"" thinking that if I did get in, I might never see this House again. But I got in, and I travelled nearly 250 miles in the Russian zone. While I realise that what I saw may not represent the general situation throughout the zone, it, at least,  gave me an idea of what was being done in the particular part I visited. I well remember one night seeing the refugee trains leaving a German station. It was a horrible sight; half the people got on the train and the other half could not, and had to sleep in the station without knowing when the next train would be coming. When I asked what would happen when these people got to their destination, I was told then by officials who were with me that in all probability, when they left the train, they would be robbed of the things they still possessed; nobody would want them, and they would go out into the wilderness, and there wander until they died. That was the picture I was prepared to see. I am pleased to tell my hon. Friends on both sides of the House that I actually saw an entirely different picture. I visited many districts, and what I am going to tell the House is typical of what I saw. These people are not unloaded from trains and driven into the wilderness. They are medically examined, they are given food cards, they are found accommodation. More important than this, who does it all? Not the Russians—the Russians appoint a German Burgomaster, and it is his job. My journey was not confined to the main roads, I went into the hamlets and villages. There I was able to speak with the people who had been removed from Poland, and I was able to see what was happening to them in their new life. I found them accommodated, often two or three in a room under compulsory billeting arrangements, but I also found that large estates had been split up and each refugee had been given from six to eight hectares of land. I saw their allotment certificates authorising them to work the land, and I spoke to many of them. What was their story? This is typical. They had not been forcibly evicted from Poland, they had got out of Poland because they knew that they were among hostile people, and that if they did not get out soon they would not be able to get out at all. They got out before it was too late. It may be correct that people have been evicted, but a big proportion of those to whom I spoke got out before it was too late. In making a maiden speech I must not take too long, but I would just like to make a comparison between the people   in Berlin and those in the Russian-occupied zone. It is this: the people in Berlin are starving, in the country districts they look well. In Berlin the people are extremely well-dressed—in fact, better dressed than people in London—in the country districts, among the refugees, clothing is very scarce, many of them having only the clothes they had on when I saw them. To sum up, as far as I saw in the Russian zone, I am satisfied that there is no evidence of vengeance whatever, but that, on the contrary, everything that is humanly possible is being done. In connection with the refugee settlers it is hoped that in the near future they will be organised under a system of collective farming. It may interest the House to know that on the last day before I left Berlin I had an interview—by unorthodox methods again—with the former Russian Minister in London who now is political adviser to Marshal Zhukov. I asked him some very pertinent questions. I asked him what would happen this winter: would the Germans perish in millions? His answer was: The Germans will not die, but live. We have enough food—not much, but enough—for them not only to live but to work. Of course. I can only answer for my zone, and, most important, it should be appreciated first that the population has increased; we do not know how much, but we think 20 per cent. Therefore, more than normal production is required. Second, the food production areas were, in many cases, battlefields and this has naturally cut down production below normal. Then I spoke about the people leaving the Berlin stations and asked if it was true that they were driven out. His answer, in a nutshell, was ""No."" He said that they were looked after by the burgomaster, and I saw plenty of evidence there myself which caused me to believe it to be true. I asked him if there were millions of people just milling around homeless in the Soviet zone, and he said: Certainly not. All refugees arriving are assigned to areas, and accommodation and food found for them, better where destruction is less, worse where nothing better is available. The idea of wandering homeless has no correspondence to reality. The final question I put to him, and it may interest hon. Members opposite, was this. There was a view current, I said, that if these people did not come from the East—I was talking of Poland—they could sit there in their homes, and live  well; was that true, or was it the case that for many of them existence would be impossible if they remained among people who had no cause to love them? He said: Certainly, this latter supposition is correct. Remember, many millions of Poles have been exterminated by the Germans, and many of the Germans coming here feel, correctly, that they are in less danger in Germany. That corresponded with many of the stories that I was told in the course of my contacts with the people. My concluding statement is in connection with the question as to whether these people will live or die this winter. The answer does not depend so much upon human agency, it depends upon the weather. If it is a bad winter, many millions will die; if it is a good winter there will be fewer deaths. But, despite that, I believe that we are morally obliged to do all we can to alleviate this horrible position as far as possible.
