gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It will be a difficult task for me to follow my predecessor, Mr. Hugh Delargy, who was one of the most respected Members of this House. He carried out his heavy duties as Chairman of the Selection Committee conscientiously and without fear or favour, and we all regret his tragic death. He served his constituency well for 26 years and was known for his kindness, thoughtfulness and sympathetic ear. He was always willing to help those who came to him with problems; and he never sought publicity for the actions he took on their behalf. He will be warmly remembered by his many friends in the constituency of Thurrock, which I now have the honour to represent. My constituency makes a vital contribution to the nation's wealth through many and varied industries such as paper mills, cement works, power stations, oil refineries, margarine factories and others, including the great port of Tilbury. Thurrock now faces rising unemployment, and there are great fears and anxieties about this problem. For that reason I welcome the Bill, which aims to ensure the stability and permanence of employment for dockers. The dockers, like many other working-class groups, are much maligned by the Opposition and the Press. They are hardworking and honest, yet they are subjected to continual attack and abuse. The Port of London Authority loses virtually nothing through pilfering year after year. Nor are dockers out to grab other people's jobs, although this is the picture which is often painted of them. Instead, they are legitimately concerned about the   stability and permanence of their own employment. Over the last few years dockers have coped well with the technological changes in the industry and the changes in the development of world trade patterns. Their work force has been reduced from 60,000 in 1966 to 32,000 in 1975, and in many cases that reduction has been accepted without industrial unrest or dispute. The purpose of the Bill is not to allow dockers to grab jobs at the expense of other workers—that was never its intention. In fact, it is to confirm dock work and to confirm the jobs of those engaged in work which is classified as dock work. During the few months in which the Bill has been discussed in the House of Commons—and it has been discussed thoroughly and extensively—it has been under continual attack from the Opposition, from the media and from organisations which are interested in preserving the existence of docks outside the scheme where casual labour and substandard conditions of employment may prevail. That is the reason for their attack on the Bill. The Bill is designed firmly to establish the National Dock Labour Board and thus to guard against casual working. It is to ensure that dock workers have satisfactory conditions of work. The board, far from being rigid as envisaged by the Opposition, will allow for the mobility of labour between ports and for the necessary flexibility to meet unforeseen changes in the patterns of trade. The board is envied by other workers who would very much like to end casual employment in their own work. The ship repairers, for example, at Tilbury would very much like to be in the position of the dockers, and it is hoped that soon they will be. The Bill will not solve all the dockers' problems, because they are many and difficult, but it will allow for the problems to be tackled in the right way. It will allow the workers a say in their own conditions of work and it will continue the practice of joint regulation of employment in the docks, and that is what is important. For the Bill to have have real meaning for the dock workers, however, and for there to be a guarantee of security of employment, more will need to be done. There must be a direction  of work to the old-established and traditional ports like Tilbury in order to ensure that good employment is available there. The Bill has been thoroughly misrepresented by the Opposition, particularly by the right hon. Member for Lowestoft (Mr. Prior). But his opposition to it has been uncertain. He was unable to make up his mind earlier whether to claim that the Bill was better because of the changes put in by his party in Committee or whether to maintain that the Bill would lead to dockers taking over other people's jobs and bring about all the other ills which he has ascribed to it. In that respect, the trumpet note from the Opposition has been uncertain today. Opposition to the Bill outside the House has been much more definite. There was a last-ditch stand over the weekend by the CBI, which reiterated its old claims that the Bill would give the dockers a stranglehold on goods leaving and entering the country, making it seem that dockers, apart from menacing other workers, were now to menace and blackmail the whole country—an absurd idea. Those opponents to the Bill claim that it will increase port charges. They say that the five-mile corridor is far too great and that half a mile would be sufficient. But these claims only go to show their misunderstanding of the nature of dock work. There is far too little work outside the scheme ports to make any real difference to the nation's import bill. The half-mile corridor would be quite useless because it would need continually to be extended in order to cover the cargo-handling areas. As for the unrest which the CBI claims will follow from enactment of the Bill, the aim is to regulate employment and to provide the best possible means of dealing with industrial unrest. No longer will there be the conflict favoured by the Opposition. Instead, there will be the continuing co-operation of employer and dock worker to ensure that all the problems faced by the industry are properly and carefully dealt with.
