gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to have been called early on this, the first, occasion on which I have spoken in the House, and I must apologise for having to leave before the end of the debate. The history of the English free grammar school has its roots in the Middle Ages, when clerks in Holy Orders made some provision for secular education. During the reigns of Edward VI and Elizabeth I many public-spirited persons, amongst whom one is glad to note were merchants, aldermen and Members of Parliament, founded free grammar schools. To quote from the foundation grant of my own school, dating from 1584, its object was …the pious and liberal training of the Youth of our Kingdom. The school seal depicts the headmaster seated at a desk, facing five pupils. Prominent in the foreground, and overhanging two of them, is a very large birch. Those two pupils appear to be wearing skirts, whereas the other three have wide knee-breeches and leather jerkins, typical of the Elizabethan age. This seal has given rise to the story that Queen Elizabeth, in granting the charter, wished, against the founder's inclinations, that girls should be included in the school. Alas, it is but a pleasant fable. But that boys' education was not the sole concern of the Elizabethan benefactors is proved by the wording of another school foundation wherein, with a nice turn of phrase, it is written that it was to be …graced by the addition of girls. Today, I wish to describe two other grammar schools—those situated in the Borough of Poole, which I have the honour to represent in this place. The Poole Grammar School, founded by the Poole Borough Council in 1904, carries on the traditions of an older free school, founded in 1629, which, by 1835, had fallen into decay through competition from certain non-conformist schools   offering technical education with a strong navigational bias. This one might expect in an ancient seaport like Poole, trading with Newfoundland. Poole Grammar School, unlike the Elizabethan foundation to which I went, originally was coeducational, and remained thus until 1939. Growing simultaneously in the borough was another school, founded privately in 1905 as the Parkstone School, with religious instruction in accordance with the principles of the Church of England. This was placed under the aegis of the Dorset County Council in 1934, and shortly afterwards it became a school for girls only, and was redesignated Park-stone Girls' Grammar School. These two schools, one for boys and the other for girls, have a governing body common to them both, and over the past 60 years the teaching in these schools has given a mental discipline and breadth of outlook which has enabled successive entrants to develop sound qualities of leadership and character. Today, Poole Grammar School has 740 boys, of whom no fewer than 172 are in the sixth form, and the Parkstone Girls' Grammar School has 700 pupils, of whom 114 are in the sixth form. Complementary to these two grammar schools, there are in Poole four excellent secondary schools, three either mixed or in parallel streams of boys and girls, and one for girls only. The inter-relationship of all these schools in Poole works excellently. The secondary schools are truly multilateral schools capable of catering for children right across the academic spectrum from the General Certificate of Education through the Certificate of Secondary Education to the Newsom Report ideas for the third and fourth quartiles of ability. Over the past 30 years the grammar schools have produced so many qualified sixth-formers that the demand for university places has outrun supply, and from this fact has arisen the Robbins Report and the subsequent programme of expansion. But there are six major problems which face our education system nationally. First, there is the grave shortage of university places which will not be made good until 1975 or later. Secondly, the size of the sixth forms will continue to grow. Thirdly,  there is a shortage of trained staff, particularly of highly qualified graduates. Fourthly, the organisation of a Secondary Certificate of Education for the second quartile of ability has yet to be tested in practice. Fifthly, the ideas of the Newsom Report for the third and fourth quartiles of ability have yet to be put into execution. Finally, the school-leaving age will rise in 1970. Those problems are great, but they are capable of being resolved if the existing system of education is allowed to evolve gradually and logically to meet the challenge; and, to my mind, it will be unwise to hamper this evolution by inaugurating a radical change in the system. I must not be contentious, I know, but I beg for evolution and not revolution. I think that I am correct when I say that the comprehensive American high school has a standard which is two years behind our grammar school age for age. I believe that the American first degree standard is not much more advanced than our own ""A"" level pass. I am told that the Americans are worried about their system, which tends to work to the disadvantage of their more highly gifted pupils. The much publicised brain drain from the United Kingdom is but one effect. Our near neighbours on the Continent retain in their secondary systems selective establishments from which are turned out intensively trained young people with whom our own children will have to compete in the future. The Russians, moreover, having tried the comprehensive principle, have abandoned it for one of the most selective systems in the world. In Poole, the Education Committee has operated for many years an effective system of transfers between secondary schools and grammar schools to aid the late developer. Over the past five years 51 pupils have been transferred to the grammar schools, and of these 10 are at present in the sixth forms. The boys and girls of Poole's two grammar schools are drawn from all over the borough and are from the widest range of social backgrounds. They mix happily with each other and with the pupils of the secondary schools whom they meet at games and in other school-sponsored combined activities. There is no social and no intellectual snobbery here. One great drawback of the comprehensive system in an urban area such as Poole is that it becomes a neighbourhood school. Under such conditions ""equality of opportunity"" may well become meaningless because children of comparable ability may well be educated in different social environments and there is not that free exchange of ideas and conventions which a very wide social range of grammar school intake allows. We do not want to see a new form of stratification of our society, an unintended and unexpected result of a policy which, it is claimed, avoids both social and intellectual distinctions. I would tell right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite that the only true solution in Poole and, indeed, in any urban area is to retain the grammar schools and to build up the multilateral schools to be their true and equally effective counterparts. To quote a leader in the Sunday Times: We are not a country with excellence to waste.
