gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to make my maiden speech with some pride and a great sense of privilege. I hope that the House will understand and forgive the fact that due to my short time in the House — four working days — I cannot follow the previous speakers in the technicalities of the discussion so far. Had I been able to spend every second of those four working days considering the technicalities of the Bill, or indeed had I been here for the past 10 years, I doubt whether I could have done a more effective demolition job on the Government's record in the past four years than that carried out by my right hon. Friend the Member for Stepney and Poplar (Mr. Shore). To represent in the House the people of the town in which I was born and brought up is an honour which I  never really believed would come to me. Frankly, it was never a burning ambition of mine to become a Member of Parliament. Now that it has happened, however, I would not wish it to be for anywhere but my home town of Darlington. My entry to the House at this time, however, is inevitably tinged with sadness and regret, as it results from the death of my much loved and respected colleague and predecessor, Ted Fletcher. Many hon. Members will not know, although some Labour Members know, that in 1962 I was beaten by Ted Fletcher for the Darlington nomination by the narrowest possible margin. Legend has it that it was a majority of one. It was probably more, but I will take the legend. Nevertheless, we worked amicably together over successive elections between 1964 and 1969. Ted Fletcher's record speaks for itself. He served the people of Darlington for more than 18 years and was working on constituents' problems until shortly before his death. I recall him telephoning me just a few days before he died and insisting that even if he could not go to London and to the House he could at least write letters to Ministers and Government Departments. In the history of parliamentary representation in Darlington since 1868, only one Member served for a longer period. As I know only too well from recent experience, Darlington is a notoriously marginal seat and has never been given to massive majorities, whichever side has been successful in elections. It is a great tribute to Ted Fletcher's integrity and devotion to duty that he held the seat for so long. I must be frank. I did not agree with him on every political issue, but throughout the years that I knew him he always had my respect. As only the fourth Labour Member ever to sit for Darlington, I shall do my utmost to maintain Ted Fletcher's high standard of service to his constituents who are now mine. I some ways, my election to the House is reminiscent of that of my predecessor, in that it has taken place against a background of rising unemployment. When Ted Fletcher came to the House in 1964 Darlington was going through a difficult time—again after a period of Conservative Government. The famous North Road railway workshops and the privately owned Stephenson's locomotive engineers faced closure. Indeed, it was too late to undo the process set in motion by the previous Government and those businesses closed soon after the election. Today, too, we are fighting for the survival of our railway workshops. Although the Shildon workshops are not in my constituency, several hundred people travel to work there from Darlington—many of them workers made redundant in the earlier round of closures in the mid-1960s. In addition, several companies which replaced the town's older industries at that time are now facing difficulties and have had to declare many redundancies in recent years, with more on the horizon. The problems of Darlington bear out the truth of what has been said today by my right hon. Friend the Member for Stepney and Poplar. When my predecessor was elected the scale of unemployment was different, but there was another major difference. Although the economic climate was difficult, the general economic environment was more favourable. At least we had a Labour Government who believed in economic growth and full employment. There has been no such commitment in the past four years. Conservative Members have denied that charge today and on previous occasions, but their blindness to the importance of any aspect of economic policy but the   reduction of inflation suggests to me that they do not really care about the miseries and misfortunes of unemployment, perhaps because they have never experienced it personally or in their family backgrounds. If the price of low inflation is 3 million or 4 million out of work, the price is too great to pay. In any case, inflation and increased employment are not necessarily synonymous, although Conservatives constantly suggest that they are. With all our present spare capacity in the economy and our natural resources—much play is made of what has happened in France, but France does not have the same resources—it should be possible to give a considerable boost to the economy without returning to the high levels of inflation experienced in the recent past. Indeed, the most recent high levels of inflation were artificially induced by the Conservatives, as my right hon. Friend the Member for Stepney and Poplar made clear. The Chief Secretary looks puzzled. He should study the Chancellor's first Budget. I shall not go into details about that Budget, save to say that it was supposed to lay the foundations for sustainable economic growth and full employment. Four years later, almost every economic indicator shows that the situation is worse, although we have been told today— for the umpteenth time —that recovery is now on the way. The Government's only claims to fame so far have been the reduction in inflation and the supposed increase in productivity. Each of those is the result, not of economic success, but of economic failure. Any fool Government can reduce inflation by savage deflation. That is what the Government's policies have amounted to. The increase in productivity is solely the result of the increase in unemployment. There has been no fundamental or lasting improvement in productivity or the economy. The supposed upturn that we have again heard about today is not based on any evidence. The most recent figures that the Government have given us can only be seen against the low point which the economy has reached as a result of four years of their policies. The Government argue that all of our troubles are due to the world recession. We heard that argument again today, and the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Employment said similar things earlier this week. I cannot understand the logic of the Government's argument. How can they deny responsibility, as they do, for the depression and high unemployment while claiming credit for what they regard as two favourable consequences? That seems to be a contradiction. The truth is that worldwide circumstances are only partly responsible for Britain's plight. The Government's policies have been much more deflationary than those of any other industrial country. The Chief Secretary to the Treasury today extolled that as a virtue of Government policy. While Britain has shed about 10 per cent. of its jobs since 1979, EC countries have, on average, shed about 3 per cent. of theirs. Moreover, our record has been consistently worse than that of other OECD countries. In 1979 Britain's level of unemployment was about the same as the average for the EC. It is now one third higher and 50 per cent. higher than the average for OECD countries. Therefore, even on the most generous assessment of Government responsibility, between 45 and 50 per cent. of the increase in unemployment is probably due directly to Government policy. Even without the world recession unemployment would have risen by more than 1 million during the Government's lifetime, and that is being generous. The plain fact is that the Government have cut expenditure and increased taxes more than the Government of any other major industrial country. That has been demonstrated in great detail today. The consequences of such a policy are plain for all to see, except, of course, to some types of conviction politicians who are blind to everyone's convictions but their own. My constituency has suffered, as have all others. In the Darlington travel-to-work area, 8,500 redundancies have been notified since May 1979. In Darlington alone unemployment has increased from 2,531 to 6,323, while notified vacancies — yesterday we were proudly told about the nationwide increase in the number notified—decreased from 551 to 156 between May 1979 and March 1983. Nearly 500 unemployed school leavers are chasing the 16 vacancies that have been notified to careers officers. Perhaps the answer is that which the Secretary of State for Defence gave today and we shall have to turn to some form of military service. I do not believe that that suggestion will be welcome. In my travel-to-work area the level of unemployment is now 15·2 per cent. Unemployment is not merely a case of economics; it is a moral outrage. The people of Darlington showed in the recent by-election that they are not prepared to tolerate it any longer. They do not believe in the Government's policies or that things will get better, even though that has been repeated time and again this week. We have been told constantly this week that good times are just around the corner. The 1983 Budget will not make the slightest difference. My right hon. Friend the Member for Stepney and Poplar has shown that the Government expect unemployment to increase by 300,000. It is because of such considerations that we won the by-election. That is why I am here and a Conservative or, come to that. a Social Democratic Member is not—there is little difference between them. The greatest pleasure, apart from the personal one of winning an election, that I derive from our victory is that I believe it heralds the turning point in the fortunes of the Labour party. Whatever Conservative Members may say about an early election, that victory presages the return of a Labour Government. We need a Labour Government who are dedicated to reducing unemployment and a massive new investment programme for the whole country. Moreover, for areas such as mine in the north we should be committed to the establishment of a development agency that has the entrepreneurial skills and experience to promote the area and attract industry to it. We need a Government who are dedicated to that and to reversing the present Government's policies so that we can restore a sense of decency and dignity to the conduct of Britain's economic affairs.
