gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you for calling me, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for the first time. I hope that this is the first of many occasions that I shall catch your eye. Thirty years ago my distinguished predecessor, Mr. John Peyton, referred in his maiden speech to the problems confronting the farming and rural areas of Yeovil. Just as I would wish to follow him in his distinguished service to my constituency, and in the length of that service, so I choose as the subject of my maiden speech the problems of the young unemployed in rural areas. Those problems today are no less—and are probably greater—than they were 20 or 30 years ago, because there has been a progressive withdrawal of services and amenities in rural areas which, despite their claim to represent rural Britain, has accelerated under this Government. It is insufficiently recognised by many people, especially by many members of the Government, that   there is a differential of misery between the unemployed in rural areas and the unemployed in towns. The unemployed in country villages are not only psychologically separated from other members of society, but physically separated from the facilities and amenities enjoyed by those who live in towns, such as jobcentres, social services departments, unemployment benefit offices, sources of advice and counselling, and recreational facilities. There may be more unemployed people in our cities, but the misery of being young and unemployed is far greater in rural areas. To demonstrate my point, I shall use the example of the typical procedures that a school leaver aged 16 must go through in a small village in my constituency called Hinton St. George. He left school in June last year and spent three or four months trying to find a job. In common with so many others, he failed. In September he wished to sign on for his dole, so he had to travel six or seven miles by inadequate public transport to the careers office in Yeovil. I pay tribute to careers officers, who wrestle with appalling problems and with growing difficulties on diminished resources. The staff of Yeovil careers office especially has managed to cope with splendid skill and ability. The careers officer told that youngster, ""I am sorry. You cannot claim your dole here, but you must register with us. Please go to the unemployment benefit office."" That youngster was more fortunate than many others in rural areas, because in my constituency the unemployment benefit office and the careers office are at least in the same town. In many other rural constituencies he would have had to go somewhere else to sign on for his unemployment benefit. The youngster waited for two to three hours in disgraceful conditions, because our unemployment benefit office is small, miserable, ill-equipped and has few facilities, among a crowd of many others, to register in the hope of getting his dole. However, when he got to the window he was told, ""I am sorry. You must register with us and fill in form UB1, but as you have paid no contributions you will receive supplementary benefit. Please go the Department of Health and Social Security."" At that stage he must have thought that we were giving him the runaround. I would have felt that, let alone a young man of 16 who has just left school and gone into the world. However, there is worse to come. He then went to the supplementary benefit office in Yeovil and waited another two or three hours in rather better conditions. When he arrived at the counter he was told, ""I am awfully sorry, but although you live only six or seven miles from Yeovil, we do not deal with you here. You must have your interview at the DHSS office in Taunton""—about 38 miles in the opposite direction. There are villages in my constituency from which one cannot get to Taunton and back by public transport in the same week. That is the kind of experience that we ask 16-year-old people to go through. This year circumstances are different, A person must still go to the unemployment benefit office but he may now register by post with the DHSS. I do not know how many hon. Members have seen the form on which a person registers for benefit. It is three or four pages long. Some unemployed adults have come to me asking for help to fill in the form. My hon. Friend the Member for Truro (Mr. Penhaligon) has commented that if one can fill in the form one will probably not be unemployed anyway. Certainly,  the bewilderment and confusion that will confront young people this year will not be significantly different from last year. Four or five months ago I met a young girl who had been through the youth opportunities programme. She lived not in my constituency but in that of the hon. Member for Dorset, West (Mr. Spicer). Nevertheless, she was using the jobcentre at Crewkerne because it was the most convenient one. She was keen to get a job. She perceived that, to get that job, she had to go to the jobcentre and ask what jobs were available. That involved a walk of three miles and two bus journeys—a journey of an hour and a half. She told me that she did that 15 times, for an average time in the jobcentre of no more than 30 seconds. I pay tribute to her determination. I suspect that most of us would have given up after two or three times. The Government are to consider closing down the jobcentre in Crewkerne, so that girl will have to take a further bus journey, another seven or eight miles, to Yeovil. We are expecting an answer on that matter in the near future. Many of us are suspicious that the answer sems to have been delayed until after the general election. We regard it is a probability that the small and inadequate service provided by that jobcentre may now vanish as well. It is a growing problem not just for those who are 16 to 18 but for those beyond 18. Although adult unemployment in my constituency is very low at 7·6 per cent.—it is 580th in the country—for those under 21 it is 25 per cent. In Somerset the unemployment level for those under the age of 25 is no less than 33 per cent. Unemployment does not just end at 18. In the face of a growing problem, the Government are proud to propose their new youth training initiative. Contrary to the rosy picture that the Minister has painted about how the youth training scheme has got off the ground, in the county of Somerset it has staggered to its feet, with industrialists not knowing what will happen next and with members of the career services and the Manpower Services Commission unclear about what will happen in the next year or two. It must strike many of us that the youth training scheme seems to be more a hasty response by the Government to rid themselves of the political thorn of youth unemployment than a co-ordinated programme to meet the needs of young unemployed people. The scheme is insufficiently thought out and fails completely to take account of the needs of young people as a whole. It concentrates the total available resource on the 16 to 17 age group. There is little or nothing for anyone beyond that age. The scheme concentrates resources on the towns, not the countryside. Publicity, particularly in the south-west, has said that the scheme has been a success. The launching of the scheme may prove to be a considerable success in our towns. However, it is not a success in the rural areas. Firms are keen, but the funding has been designed to suit the running of the scheme in urban rather than rural areas. It is not sufficient to cover the operating costs, especially transport, and the greater burdens that smaller firms in the rural areas must carry if they are to act as sponsors for the scheme. Several consortia of small firms in the rural areas of my constituency, which are keen to act as sponsors, have now withdrawn because Government funding is not adequate to meet the special costs, particularly transportation, that they will have to bear. On present   signs, there may be no provision of a youth training scheme for those who happen to live outside towns in the Yeovil constituency, and in Dorset and other counties. Another question that I have heard, about the infamous youth opportunities programme is, ""Is there life after YOP?"" We must now ask, will there be life after YTS? I think that there will not be. I have a great fear that, at the end of the year, youngsters' expectations of the future may well have been raised, but there will be nothing to supply them with a job. In many ways, it is not, as the Government would have us believe, a bridge from school to work but a stepping stone into the oblivion and misery of the adult dole queue. The scheme is inflexible. As has been mentioned, it does not account for many who fall outside its rather tight criteria. A letter sent to me by a prospective employer — Mr. Jeanes of Chard— said: I write to you as I have reached a dead end through other avenues tried. We have at present a 16 year old youth on the Work Experience Scheme whom we wish to employ as a Apprentice Bricklayer as we have a vacancy for this position. I have personally spoken to the youth and he appears to be extremely keen to become apprenticed as a Bricklayer with our Company. Our Site Manager like myself consider this young man to have great potential in this field. At this point one would consider the situation ideal— on the one hand a lad keen to be a bricklayer and, on the other, an employer keen for him to be trained as one— but not so. The N.F.B.T.E., CITB and Manpower Services Commission all say it cannot be done. The Manpower Services Commission will not introduce him to the Youth Training Scheme because he has been on the Work Experience Scheme and the CITB will not give him an apprenticeship unless he is on the Youth Training Scheme. A 16-year-old with exceptional ability, because he happens to have passed through some element of YOP already, is now denied the possibility of gaining an apprenticeship. I mention also the co-ordination of the scheme. Conservative Members have mentioned the young workers scheme. It is wrong that the young workers scheme should operate in parallel with the youth training scheme. There are many who are now being tempted to take jobs under the young workers scheme, sometimes on very low pay. There is no minimum pay for the young workers scheme. I am told that there is even one case where an employer made a profit on the £ 15 that is paid under the young workers scheme. I am unable to substantiate that. The Government's chosen instrument for running the youth training scheme is the Manpower Services Commission. I have been connected with the commission as one who has been paid a salary by it and who has had to work with it to initiate schemes for young people. I regard the Manpower Services Commission as an instrument insufficiently equipped to cope with some of the problems. I have been plagued by employers who have said that they have sent letters to the MSC that have remained unanswered months later. I heard recently of an instance where a local group that got together to seek to launch a local initiative for young people is being completely ignored by the Manpower Services Commission. I have noted the moves of office that the MSC has been through in my area in the past 18 months. The administrative office that has dealt with my area both for the youth training programme and special programme provisions has moved in the last 18 months from Exeter to Bristol, to Exeter, to Taunton, to Bristol, to Exeter, and  to Taunton. It is little wonder that it is unable to cope with the administrative burdens and problems of launching such a major scheme. I am aware that I have been critical, but I should like to end on a positive note by setting out what the alliance regards as being necessary. First, there is a need to recognise the special problems of the rural areas, and particularly the rural young unemployed, and the special costs and factors involved in making the scheme work in those areas. Secondly, we regard it necessary to have a single co-ordinated body that assists young unemployed. That body should be the local education authority, and not the MSC. In particular, the role of the youth service is crucial. We are sorry that the Government have not yet said what they will do about the Thompson report because the youth service has a particular part to play in doing anything worthwhile for young people. Many initiatives can be taken in the rural areas provided that there is more emphasis and freedom for local bodies to be able to run and operate these courses. In short, we need a decent youth training scheme. I welcome the comment of the hon. Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Haselhurst) that that scheme should last for two years. We need a real bridge between school and work, and not, as the youth training scheme seems to be, a short-term political expedient, whose primary aim is more to get the Government off an uncomfortable political hook than to do something of real importance and value for our young people.
