gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Since I have been fortunate enough for the first time to catch your eye, Sir Charles, on an occasion so eminent, and in doing so to follow a former Prime Minister, it is hardly for me to attempt to enlarge upon or in any way to extend or develop the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Walthamstow, West (Mr. Attlee). I am told that in ancient days when this House first had its origin in the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey it was customary for speakers to begin with a plea for a blessing and to end with a plea for mercy. I plead for the customary indulgence of the Committee as I attempt, like a maiden, to tread carefully, and amid controversy to emerge, I hope, tolerably intact. In this endeavour I propose to keep to some generalisations which have caused me to seek to catch your eye, Sir Charles, because I have spent the last 20 years in endeavouring to equip myself to speak in this place by travelling the globe as a newspaper correspondent and in seeking to inform myself upon foreign affairs. With those generalities and this situation in mind, I suggest that we are confronted today with a conflict between, on the one hand, the creative society, and. on the other, the slave State. The one is broadly attached to and based upon   the maritime system, and the other is broadly based and embedded in the landward Powers of Asia and Europe. The issue has been raised, and will inevitably be in the forefront of the debate tonight, of the possibility of a revival of German militarism and the association or otherwise of Germany with Western Europe and the Atlantic Powers, and, above all, of the possibility, dear to many minds, that Germany might by some trick he reduced to the position of an impotent neuter. On the contrary, I submit that the opportunity to neutralise Germany was offered and rejected in 1946. It was offered by Secretary Jimmy Byrne of the United States when he proposed a Four-Power Treaty of the great European Powers to keep Germany disarmed. As I have said, and as the Committee will remember, that proposal made in 1946 was rejected by the Soviet Foreign Secretary, and that rejection was followed consecutively by a series of developments in completing or advancing the natural association of the Atlantic Community, starting with the British-French Treaty of Dunkirk in 1947. There followed, it will be remembered, the Five-Power Brussels Treaty of 1948, followed in turn, by the North Atlantic Treaty in 1949. That was the result of a series of negatives from behind the Iron Curtain, so that the situation confronting us today as regards the incorporation of Western Germany, or of, as we may legitimately hope, a united Germany, into the Atlantic association is indeed a product of a string of negatives. It has been widely suggested that we must beware of German militarism. But militarism is not and has not in history been the monopoly of a single country or people. We need only look back to the days of Napoleon to see when militarism was seated elsewhere. The danger in modern times is surely that a country which might seek to rearm might find that it was economically an unbearable burden and might seek an alliance on one side or another to lighten that load. Since the neutralisation of Germany would have been possible in 1946, but was rejected by the Soviet Government, we are now faced with the choice whether Germany's broad association shall be, roughly, with the West or, roughly, with  the East. If that, indeed, is the case, I suggest that we have a serious and complex course to pursue. There has been a series of notes exchanged between the Soviet Government and the Western Powers. One feature of those notes appears to have passed without general notice. It appears that whereas the desirability of free, nation-wide elections was foremost in the earliest of the Russian communications, that and the possibility of guarantees for supervising such a survey of opinion have progressively receded. Of course, if that were the greatest of our worries we need not, I suggest, worry very greatly until this correspondence has been brought to its proper and, I hope, felicitous conclusion. None the less, it has been accompanied by other developments to which we cannot turn a blind eye. I submit that we should take note not only of the warning view of Doctor Ulbricht, to which my hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary has already made reference. There has been the blockage of traffic towards Berlin. That is in progress now. There has also been an air incident close to Berlin horribly reminiscent of that which occurred over Gatow airfield just before the blockage of Berlin, followed, thank heaven, by the relief of that siege. There are reports—let us hope they are unfounded, but it is absurd to turn an altogether blind eye to them either—of further military reinforcements in the East. If that indeed is the case, and if those reinforcements do not prove to be, as let us hope is likely, a mere matter of summer manoeuvres, the whole exchange of Russian and Western notes, with the issue of free German elections, receding into the background, may confront us with a situation of gravity. We are bound to ask ourselves whether this voluminous correspondence is in any degree the diplomatic cover for some other objective. I believe it is proper that in the conduct of defence one should be as gentle as a lamb but indeed as wise as the serpent. Let us therefore miss no possibility that could occur. Naturally enough we take any suggestion or rumour of troop movements with reserve; but should we not bear in mind the possibility that these reports have a basis and the possibility that they may   continue and, with that in mind, consider the results of the North Atlantic Treaty Council at Lisbon in February? The extensive report of that conference which I have in my hand numbers about 40 pages, and from the fact that it was not to be found in the House of Commons Library I bid fair to guess that it had not been very widely read from cover to cover. That communiqué does not state more than the bare facts that the Atlantic Powers propose to have 50 divisions on the ground by the end of this year. Such a proposition, however, appears to have been somewhat dimmed by subsequent disclosures. The Norwegian Foreign Secretary was telling the Storting at the beginning of March that this was an aim and not a positive, definite, irrevocable intention. We learned from Secretary Lovett of the United States, when he addressed the appropriate committees of the Senate and the House in the United States Congress early in March, that of those 50 divisions 25 would be active and 25 in reserve. We have since learned from General Gruenther, Chief of Staff to General Eisenhower, who was addressing the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on 24th March, that the purpose was not simply to have 50 divisions by the end of this year but to make sure that whatever might be the reinforcements on the other side the West would keep pace and that it would never be possible—so the plan was—for the other side to mount such reserves and have them on hand at any moment so that a blitz offensive could be mounted as indeed, if it had been intended, might have been mounted at any time in the past four years. But is it not a pity that we should learn these essentials of the North Atlantic Treaty Council decisions not from official communiqués but from N.A.T.O. officials and, indeed, from the Chief of Staff to General Eisenhower. More is the pity when, if we look back over the course of the whole series of meetings of Defence Ministers and Foreign Secretaries of the Brussels Treaty Powers from 1948 to the end of 1949 and of the North Atlantic Treaty in its early days, that we find platitude after platitude. I will quote only one. In July, 1948, the Brussels Council announced that it had agreed—after the Treaty had been signed—to a common  defence policy to secure Five-Power security. Not until some four years later comes a hard plan for real defence. I submit that we are faced with the unreality of paper agreements but with the reality of tension; that we are faced with an issue for Germany which is already too far awakened, nervous and alert, and in connection with which events have passed too rapidly, to make her reduction to the position of an impotent neuter any longer possible. But the issue we are bound to debate in that context is whether Germany, united or truncated, as history may yet reveal, shall in general be associated with the Atlantic community and the maritime Powers—indeed, with the creative society—or with the society of the East, the slave State. Bearing that in mind, and pleading finally for the indulgence of the Committee, may I say that behind the complexity of this whole matter, which one can study indefinitely, I cannot help thinking of shepherds on the hillside in Lanarkshire, the people who work far from the open air in the pits, the railwaymen at their grimy toil, people living in squalor, in degrading, contemptible surroundings up and down my constituency, from the epic slopes of Beattock Hill to the suburbs of that great city of Glasgow itself. And upon all their lips is one word, all the time. It is a plea for peace.
