gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this, my first, speech in this House, may I claim the indulgence of hon. Members and also thank Members for the courtesy and kindness which they have shown to me, and which have been a great encouragement, during the four weeks that I have been a Member of this House? I choose to speak on this subject of dirty coal because, like most other hon. Members, I am concerned with sustaining the success of nationalisation in the coal mining industry. I appreciate very much indeed the success which has been achieved in the industry and I realise that sustained successes will depend very much upon the extent to which the industry can supply coal, not only at a just price, but also of a quality required by the customers. I also speak as one of those Members, at least on this side of the House, who have not only had experience in the digging and getting of the coal about which we complain from time to time but also held an official position at the divisional level in recent years, both during the war, when the industry was controlled by the Ministry of Fuel and Power and in the last three years, under nationalisation of the industry when more successful control and management have been the result. The question of dirty coal—I do not intend to be provocative, as I appreciate the indulgence extended to me by right hon. and hon. Members—is not a new one. It has worried the mining community, particularly in connection with free and concessionary coal, for many years. As a miners' trade union official and as a workman receiving that coal I have regularly complained, like many others in the mining community during  those years, about the quality of the coal which was being supplied to myself and to my fellow workmen. We have been concerned about the inferior quality of coal for a number of years. In addition to the inconvenience we suffered in the burning of such coal, we had to suffer the fines and other deductions from wages inflicted upon the men who were held to be responsible for filling such bad quality of coal. Therefore, this is no new question. It did not begin with nationalisation or with the Labour Government. It has concerned us all for a number of years. The question has naturally been given much more prominence in recent years. We are equally, if not more, concerned about tackling the problem of dirty coal than are many right hon. and hon. Members on the opposite side of the House. Our livelihood, our very lives and the lives of members of our families, have been invested in the industry for many years. We are very much concerned and very anxious that this problem should be tackled by the responsible persons as effectively and as quickly as possible. In recent years there has been reduced manpower. Let us not underestimate the effect of the reduction of manpower. My right hon. Friend has compared output now with output in 1938. As he says, we have lost not 50,000 men but nearly 80,000 men since that time. Even by the use of machinery we cannot make up for that loss of manpower and output. Reduced manpower has meant reduced output, and that has lead to a much lower degree of selectivity in the quality and grade of coal which can be chosen. In recent years, and before nationalisation, there has been a big demand for coal, coupled with a reduced supply, and, therefore, inferior qualities have had to be provided and put upon the market to meet the demand. The National Coal Board and the Government, being particularly concerned with the success of nationalisation, are anxious to find a solution to the problem of dirty coal. If the right hon. Member for Southport (Mr. R. S. Hudson) had read more fully the report of the National Coal Board for 1947 I think he would not have stated that the Board talked of less conscientious care being taken by people in the industry in connection with the cleaning of coal. That report   enumerated quite a number of causes for the inferior quality of coal, and it is not fair to allege that the Board are content to say that less conscientious care has been taken in the cleaning of coal. The Board enumerated the causes at that time and gave figures showing the reasons. They went on to show the efforts that had been made to deal with this very aggravating question of dirty coal. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Southport was inclined to treat rather lightly the fact that the industry is working thinner seams than 20 years ago, but hon. Gentlemen may be interested to know that over the last 20 years—which is not a long period in the life of an industry—the proportion of the total output produced from seams five feet or over was reduced from 27 per cent. to 20 per cent. Those of us who have been in the mining industry and have had experience of different pits can see that that tendency will continue in modern coal mining. Probably, deterioration as a result of thinner seams—such seams are naturally generally dirtier—can be counteracted by scientific research, alteration of the design of machinery for cutting and loading underground and general changes in mining methods, but all these methods are matters of long-term policy and cannot be put into operation in a matter of three, four or five years. It will take much longer to instal machinery and change methods in order to reap the results of scientific research and eventually achieve a better quality and cleaner type of coal. It is claimed that if there is difficulty in cleaning coal underground, it ought to be cleaned on the surface. That may be done by degrees, for cleaning plant cannot be installed immediately. My right hon. Friend has indicated the extent to which the National Coal Board has been increasing the number of cleaning plants at the collieries. There are still many collieries experiencing difficulty in cleaning coal due to the increased amount of dirt in the coal. The report of the National Coal Board for its first year showed that the Board had to re-open cleaning plants which were idle at some collieries. Others which were working below full capacity were brought into full capacity by being linked with neighbour-  ing collieries from which coal was brought for cleaning to this centralised cleaning plant. My right hon. Friend mentioned, in a general way, the rate at which the installation of mechanical cleaning plant has lagged behind the installation of mechanical cutters and power loaders underground. Let us again take a period of 20 years. For the 20 years almost immediately before nationalisation machinery increased in advance of mechanical cleaners. The quantity of mechanically cut coal increased from 31 per cent. to 74 per cent. and mechanically conveyed coal from 17 per cent. to 73 per cent., whereas the rate of the increased installation of mechanical cleaning plant was only from 30 per cent. to 47 per cent. It was, therefore, substantially behind, and everyone agrees that mechanically cut and filled coal is naturally dirtier and more difficult to deal with than hand-hewn and handfilled coal. Also, in recent years prominence has been given to the problem because of the increase in the selling price of coal. It is natural to expect better quality coal if a higher price is paid. One does not wish to under-estimate the urgent necessity of dealing with this problem, not only for the sake of the home market but also for the sake of foreign markets which are becoming more and more important to the sustained success of the industry. The National Coal Board, the Government and many hon. Members on this side of the House are concerned about the matter. Much has been done during the three years of nationalisation to bring idle plant into operation and all plant into full capacity. Surveys have been taken of coal cleaning plant. Standard designs for cleaning plant have been considered, but that does not overcome the problem because some pits have difficulties peculiar to themselves which standardisation would not solve. The efforts made during the last three years to deal with this problem have met with some success. Much useful information can be obtained from the report which is now issued not only to the Government but also to the public by the nationalised industry year by year. That report shows that as a result of an increased number of mechanical cleaning   plants the proportion of larger coal has been increased from 62 to 66 per cent. At the other end of the scale the proportion of uncleaned or untreated ""smalls"" has been reduced from 16½ per cent. to 14½ per cent. of the total output. The problem cannot be tackled as a short-term matter; it requires long-term policy. It can be tackled. If we follow some of the suggestions of the Opposition there will not only be greatly increased cost to the industry because of our having to deal with an inadequate number of mechanical cleaning plants to deal with the increased amount of dirty coal, but there will also be a considerable loss of output which the country and the world cannot afford at present. There must be a long-term policy. I emphasise that we are as much concerned with this question as any right hon. or hon. Member opposite. As one of the public I have been buying coal for the last seven or eight years. At times I have had to complain, but I am satisfied that taking this as part of the situation which has developed in recent years in the industry, the public would much prefer to have this one thing to complain about than the many complaints and grievances of pre-nationalisation days. As I have said, I do not wish to be provocative in this speech, but I cannot help thinking that the subject under discussion is not the purpose of the Debate. In this case the purpose has been more to discredit the nationalisation of the industry than to deal with this problem. Having had some little experience of the industry, not only as a workman, but from a higher level, I am certain that no matter from what aspect we judge the industry—whether from the point of view of output, of profits, of the standard of wages, the conditions of employment, the increased welfare facilities, the increased training facilities, the increased standards of safety compared with pre-war days—we are bound to conclude that this industry under nationalisation is showing success compared with the days of bankruptcy—financial, human, moral, and soon. One thing I am sure my hon. Friends on this side of the House appreciate, the standard of human dignity now enjoyed in the industry compared with pre-nationalisation days. There is a standard of respect and human relations are much better now  than ever before. As one who represents a mining constituency in the midst of other mining constituencies, I suggest that the attitude of the electorate during the weeks of the election campaign, when most of us increased our majorities, was because of the dignity now enjoyed by the people in the industry, including the officials, compared with pre-war years. There is freedom and an appreciation of the higher standards of security and dignity now enjoyed, and people know that it is the result of nationalisation. There is no lack of care and conscientiousness in the industry among the miners and the trade unions, as has been suggested. In respect of the problem of dirty coal in Durham County and other parts of the Northern Division, during the time I was holding an official position for that Division we had weekend meetings of workmen and managements and area trade unions, at which this question was discussed. They were, and are, concerned with trying to find means of improving the quality of the coal because they realise that our standard of living now depends on the success of the nationalised mining industry. We should bear that in mind and pay some tribute to the earnest endeavours that the industry is making to deal with the problem in our pits. I hope the House will not make use of this Debate to indicate despair as to the success of the nationalised coal mining industry. As I have said, seeing it from within, and knowing the reactions and the relationships which exist now compared with pre-nationalisation and pre-war years, this industry is becoming a success and this question, along with many others, is being dealt with earnestly and conscientiously by the responsible people in the industry.
