gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to be able to make my first speech to this House on a matter so weighty as  that now before us. I hope I shall not exceed what is fit and proper in a maiden speech. We are discussing today our relationships with a great Power with whom it is essential that we should remain friendly. The essence of friendship is frankness. I would like to say a few words about two problems concerning the security of the world, whose probable source of origin will be in America. Our attitude to them will determine the whole relations between our countries. These are the dangers of isolationism and of an economic slump in America. Of the many great dangers facing the world today I am not sure that a recrudescence of American isolationism is not one of the gravest. That point needs to be stressed, because the danger is obscured by the fears aroused in some quarters by every activity of America outside its own borders. This is a matter on which it is important to be logical. The people who cry out against the isolationists, and damn them as reactionaries, are the same people who decry American participation in the world and describe it as ""Imperialist."" We cannot have it both ways. If we want, as I believe we should, and as would be in our national interest, to see a complete abandonment of American isolationism, we want more American participation in the world. In this matter I find myself in the perhaps peculiar position for me of being in agreement with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), but I have never held that one should change one's views because one's political opponents agree with them—even one's most distinguished political opponents. If so it would be very easy for those opponents to dictate one's policy. Of course, America may abuse its powers; in all power there is the possibility of abuse, but it seems to me that abuse of power is not the only danger inherent in power. Power which is not accepted by those who in fact possess it is as dangerous as power that is abused by those who possess it. What I mean is this. America is, in fact, a great Power, and even if it withdraws from the affairs of the world, all the other countries in the world are going to reckon on America's potential power. If America withdraws from the world, that means that the world will be in a constant state of dangerous and incalculable disequilibrium. It means that the world is, so to   speak, running on three cylinders, and the fourth cylinder may, at any moment, suddenly turn out to be an atom bomb. I, therefore, think that we should welcome the greatest amount of American participation in the world, and therefore we should also welcome Mr. Truman's speech, not so much for its idealism, to which we have grown accustomed from America, but for its large measure of realism. In Mr. Truman's speech were many examples of the determination of America to participate in the daily and current affairs of the world. I mention only one of them because it is perhaps the most striking, namely, the demand for strategic bases. I think it is a demand that we should welcome and, in general, support, because I feel that every step America takes towards participation in the world, is a good step so long as there is not sheer abuse of power. I would, however, add that I do not at all agree—and I say this with equal emphasis—with the manner in which America has put forward this demand, and I hope that our Prime Minister, when he meets Mr. Truman, will make it clear that neither we, nor any other of America's neighbours, can for one moment accept such a demand, unless it is clearly put forward by America as a member and full agent of the United Nations Organisation. Although there are many encouraging signs of America's continued participation in the affairs of the world, there are some signs on the other side. There are some rather disquieting signs that America may be preparing to withdraw from Germany and Europe. Some aspects of American policy in Germany would be difficult to explain on any other hypothesis. If America did withdraw in this way from Germany, it would, I am sure, be a great blow to the interests of Europe and, I think, a blow against the long-term interests of America. I am quite sure it would be against the tenor and tendency of Mr. Truman's speech. This is a matter of immediate importance, and comes up in connection with the question of the location of the seat of the United Nations Organisation. I believe that it will be, in the long run, really in the interests of America and of the world that the seat of the United Nations Organisation should be in Europe, which is the key point, and the danger centre of the world. This matter will come up before the Preparatory  Commission and again before the Assembly, and I hope that we shall do everything possible to press upon America the importance of reconsidering the decision, and of settling the United Nations Organisation in Europe. Having said that I am in favour of America's participation in world affairs, there is one form of participation about which I am not so sure. America has latterly adopted the habit of urging concrete policies upon other countries and, if I may say so, particularly upon us, regarding Palestine, Germany and other places. Of course it is quite right that our affairs should be public, and that America or any other country should express their views on them, but when America urges policies upon us in this way, I think we have the right to ask America to will the means as well as the end. We have the right to ask America how many men, and how much money would she be prepared to spend, if necessary, in carrying out the policies that she is urging upon us. Now I come to the second danger, which seems to me every whit as great as and perhaps even greater than the other—the danger of an American slump. This is really a political matter, it looms across the future of the world and clouds and colours the relations of every country, including ourselves, with America. It is a matter on which I think there is need for clear thought because it is possible—it is sometimes done—so to exaggerate the dangers of an American slump that it would be quite impossible to achieve any sort of political agreement with America at all. It seems to me to be possible to state the situation quite simply, in two propositions. The first is that it is a prime necessity and interest of this country to maintain friendship with America. The second is that the basis of any understanding with America must be economic. That is the way the Americans think; they think from economic terms to political terms. America and Russia in this, as in so much else, are in opposite positions. With America you can only get a political agreement if you first make an economic one. With Russia it is the other way round. We shall not get proper economic agreements with Russia until we have solved our political problems. Of course, I think we should not tie our economy to the American economy,   nor the pound sterling to the dollar, we should remain masters of our own economy, but we have got to stop this policy somewhere short of complete economic autarchy. This means that we have to run some risks of the consequences of an American slump. I do not believe that there is any complete safeguard against the consequences of a phenomenon so colossal as an American slump, but there are some safeguards to which we should pay great attention in our political agreements. In any agreement that involves the payment of dollars to America, it is essential that we should have an escape clause, which forgives or postpones the payment of dollars when dollars are scarce—which means when there is a slump in America and America is exporting goods and not importing them. There is such a clause in the Bretton Woods Agreement, the Scarce Currency clause, which should be taken as a model in these matters. I would be in favour of ratifying the Bretton Woods Agreement if only because of that clause. I have taken the best advice I can from economists who know more about these matters than I do, and it seems to me that we must reckon on the very serious possibility of a slump in America. I do not however believe that this time the consequences of such a slump will be anything like as bad as they were last time. I think the Americans may well get into their slump without any proper preparation, but when they do get into it Congress will resort to desperate and grandiose remedies, which will to a considerable extent limit its intensity and scope. The risks of an American slump can therefore be exaggerated. I feel that we have to take some risk in this matter; in the position in which this country is, both as regards America and Russia, we have to take certain risks. We have to demonstrate confidence, and I hope that as regards America, whilst taking all due precautions against the dangers of a slump spreading to us and the rest of the world, we shall not so exaggerate those dangers that we in fact make any political agreement impossible. My final point is this. There is a danger of our country becoming a sort of vast Vienna, a centre of social progress and civilisation in the midst of a world that is deteriorating and becoming an ex-  plosive world which may blow us up as well as itself. This imposes extra responsibilities upon our Government. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford mentioned how the people today are far less exuberant in their hopes of the peace than they were after the last war. On the whole that is a good thing. These difficult and serious problems have to be approached with sobriety. Our people are at least as eager to have a peaceful world to live in as to have good homes and good jobs. In a by-election in which I was recently engaged in my constituency, I was much impressed by the fact that the people at the meetings were as interested in international affairs as in problems of old age pensions or even of demobilisation, which at that time some organs of the Press were trying to whip up in order to discredit the Government. We have a chance here to achieve a really great policy that will be worthy of our people, if we are determined to put as much energy into the arduous and responsible pursuit of peace as we do into the building of our new Britain.
