gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with great humility that I rise so early in my political career to address the House, although the subject under discussion is one about which I have a certain amount of first-hand knowledge, having only recently been connected with the British steel industry. I have been greatly encouraged in this enterprise by noting, since I was elected by my friends in West Lewisham, the generosity shown to new hon. Members making their maiden speeches, and I hope that when I have completed my remarks it will not be considered that I have strained too heavily on that generosity. I should like also to pay a warm tribute to my predecessor and friend, Mr. Henry Price, who is a much loved and respected person in London and particularly in West Lewisham. It is sad that the British steel industry has for so many years been a victim of party political warfare because, although it has its problems, I do not believe that these have been in any way helped towards solution by it becoming a sort of political football. It is difficult to talk  about the steel industry without some emotion and, because of this, one can often get the arguments about what should be done somewhat blurred. I should have thought that if we looked back over the history of nationalisation and nationalisation attempts for the steel industry, we should be struck by the fact that in 1947 the then Labour Government made a serious, and I believe rightly so, series of attempts at compromise within their own ranks on the issue of nationalisation since this is not something which can be rushed at quickly. I should have thought that in examining what one is to do with the industry one must, at the start, ask oneself what on this side of the House is our real opposition to it being made a State monopoly. It is the Government who are really in the dock about nationalisation because it must be proved that the industry will be better as a State monopoly than as a private enterprise organisation. The first criterion I should take if I were going to examine it in this way is that the British steel industry at present is, despite what others may say, efficient and that it is not suited—and I will examine this in more detail shortly—to an over-centralised type of control and that its continued efficiency is absolutely essential to the well being of the country's economy. If we look at the efficiency of the industry as it stands at the moment, in spite of what has been said by critics, we find that this year its production is running at a record level of 26 million tons. This is 3½ million tons up on the previous year, and all the pointers show that next year it will be higher still. There is tremendous production for export. Our exports are double what they were in 1946, and our exports to Europe have gone up by 45 per cent, in the last two years. If our steel is so expensive as critics suggest, why is this so? We have heard much about price rings within the industry, but of course those price fixings apply only to home prices. In the export market British steel compares with any in the world and it is cheaper than much of the steel produced in Europe. In talking of steel exports one is apt to think of large tonnages of steel, but I am not so sure that that is what I want   to see. We are a workshop nation and surely we should be turning the steel we make into other things and sending them abroad. By that yardstick we find that 57 per cent, of all British exports are of steel and steel-made goods—motor cars, aeroplanes and so on. If we look at the export record of a nationalised industry, we find that in the British coal industry in the period 1938 to 1963 exports fell by 28 million tons, whereas steel exports in the same period rose by 100 per cent. I now mention a problem with which the industry has suddenly been faced as a result of the 15 per cent. surcharge on imports. The steel industry now finds itself in the situation in which at very short notice we may be required to produce another 1 million tons which, from a Government committed to planning, raises enormous problems since it might well mean that we shall also have to produce additional iron capacity to make steel and to blow in new blast furnaces. For a short-term programme that is hardly an economic thing to do. I have mentioned efficiency and I now take the second criterion, centralised control. As my right hon. Friend the Member for Enfield, West (Mr. Iain Macleod) pointed out, the British steel industry is enormously complex. It is made up of nearly 300 different companies and often the finished product of one company is the raw material of another. These 262 companies are tremendously interlocked because they depend on each other to work satisfactorily. In deciding how nationalization—State control or whatever we call it—is to be implemented, the definition problem of knowing where to draw the line in this is almost insurmountable. This was found in 1951 when the industry was nationalised for a brief period. The then Government found themselves owning hotels, umbrella factories and all sorts of things which they had taken over as a result of making a clean sweep. I understand that the present Government do not intend to do that again, but that they intend to take over the 12 big producers responsible for most of the crude steel production. There they will run into another problem. If they take over the 12 main producers what are they to do about the rest of the industry? How can they keep the re-rollers  and the light end of the industry under control? The British steel industry is a peculiar animal which already has a kind of control that would not be acceptable in other public enterprise systems. Is the Board, therefore, to have new powers, or are the Government to use the powers given to them by taking over the 12 key companies to squash the re-roller and light end of the industry by not supplying them with steel as required? What is euphemistically described as rationalisation in this industry could be very serious. Take, for instance, what the Minister said about the North-East Coast and the Scunthorpe area. Does it mean that Consett iron works are likely to be closed down in this rationalising of the North-East Coast? I am not sure that it does mean that, but, particularly in certain areas where population living around a steel works is not only dependent for employment on the steel company but perhaps also for town gas, chemicals and so on, rationalisation would have very serious effects on the workers in the industry if it were not carried out with great sympathy. On the question of prices, I listened with great interest to my right hon. Friend's comments on the present structure because, of course, the apparent monopoly practices regarding prices have meant great criticism for the industry in the past, but this has referred to home-priced steel only. In the export field our prices are fully competitive. I do not understand how replacing the existing system by a State monopoly on prices can improve the situation. While I thoroughly support what my right hon. Friend said about scrapping the present arrangements, we must remember that the steel industry supplies to the manufacturing industries, and surely a stable price level for the motor manufacturer and the aircraft manufacturer is something which should be encouraged. We do not want sharp fluctuations throughout the pricing range. Finally, my criterion of efficiency of the industry is in relation to Britain's economy. I believe that at the moment the industry is well led. Surely the yardstick in which we must be interested when looking at the management of an industry is, does it work efficiently? I hope I have shown that it does. In respect   of what my right hon. Friend said about father and son in the industry, steel is a peculiar creature, rather like coal or fishing—about which I known nothing—or the medical profession or the law. The father is followed by the son. Charges of nepotism which could perhaps be brought at the boardroom level could also be made al other levels throughout a steel works. On the charge that leaders in the industry have to go to a particular school or come from a particular environment, one finds in one North-East Coast company—and there are other examples—that of 11 directors the chairman went to the local State grammar school and three of the others entered the firm as apprentices. There is a cross-section in the industry operating it. In both management and operative training schemes the British steel industry is second to no other industry in the country. Its qualifield manpower is increasing at the rate of about 10 per cent, a year. I believe that the steel industry is doing excellently in Britain for Britain. It is possible to produce percentage comparisons between ourselves and other countries to show that we lag behind, but percentage comparisons, unless very carefully studied, and unless taking and comparing like with like, are often fallacious, because it can be shown that one ton of steel has been made this year, that two tons are made next year, and that therefore there has been a 100 per cent, increase in production. The British steel industry is working at about 90 per cent, capacity at the moment. It has produced enough steel for an expanding Britain. I believe that it has much to be proud of. I am sure that nobody on either side of the House wants to see the industry reduced to a sort of cawing rookery of committees and sub-committees. Too many people are involved in the industry, and too many outside are dependent upon it. I urge the Government not to take hasty action. The livelihoods of hundreds and thousands of people are at stake, and I trust that we will not let them down.
