gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate on the new Government initiatives to help the 16-year-old school leaver. I share with the hon. Member for Yeovil (Mr. Ashdown) this opportunity to make a maiden speech. I congratulate him on his maiden speech. I was interested in what he had to say about the rural areas— there are some problems in those areas that need to be discussed further in the House— and to hear the way in which he discussed in some detail the problems of his constituency. There are two special reasons why I wish to take part in this debate. First, many years ago I was an electrical engineering apprentice— admittedly a graduate apprentice— in the engineering industry. I had experience then that I have never forgotten and I learnt many lessons that will enable me to take a long-term interest in what is happening in the youth training scheme. Secondly, I have more recently been teaching physics and mathematics to young people in the 16 to 18-year-old age group. For that reason, I am interested in the way that the scheme develops because I am personally interested in our young people of that age group. Like my hon. Friend the Minister, I read The Times this morning and was encouraged by the leading article which described the way that the scheme is to develop. I share the sentiments expressed in that article. However, I was horrified to read on the previous page the attack made by a distinguished academic on my profession of physics teaching in which we were described as ignorant and parochial. I assure the House, from my experience, that this is not true. In my constituency of Norwich, North, young people will benefit from the youth training scheme. Of the 460,000 places, 1,600 will go to Norwich and the   immediate surrounding area. I am told that, of those places, 888 are already in the pipeline and 135 young people have already been placed on the scheme. What is more, I am told that there is no shortage of sponsors or agents to run the scheme. In other words, the outlook in Norwich is good and there will be opportunities, for example, in the shoe industry and in engineering, and, through Norwich city college, 15 places in electronics will be made available. Norwich is a fine city. It has a fascinating history, a wealth of architectural interest, and the canaries. It is set in rich and attractive countryside and has — I am enthusiastic about this— strong links with the Continent. It is twinned with the city of Rouen, in France, and Koblenz, in West Germany. I am sure that other hon. Members are aware that there are strong links between east Anglia and Europe. My constituency differs in character from the original seat held by my predecessor, Mr. David Ennals, since February 1974. In this, my first speech, I should particularly like to pay tribute to Mr. Ennals. His work on both Front Benches, particularly in health and social services, is well known. He took tremendous interest, as I know, in many other spheres of public life, in particular in homeless children, mental health, the Ockenden Venture and the United Nations— and that list is by no means complete. In addition, in Norwich he was, as I recognised in my speech after the election, well liked as a diligent and hard-working constituency Member. He was quick to react in any situation in which he judged that he could help his constituents. It is a pleasure for me to pay tribute to him in my maiden speech. As a result of the boundary changes, three wards of the original Norwich, North constituency have moved over to the Norwich, South constituency. My hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Powley) and I are conscious of the tradition of good service that has been given to the city of Norwich by a succession of hon. Members, and we hope to follow this tradition. My constituency has changed in another respect. We have taken in about 32,000 new electors from two other constituencies in the surrounding broadland areas. The Thorpe St. Andrew area is derived from the old constituency of Great Yarmouth, whose distinguished Member, Sir Anthony Fell, retired at the Dissolution. The suburban areas of Sprowston, Hellesdon and Old Catton were formerly in the care of my hon. Friend the Member for Norfolk, North (Mr. Howell), a constituency with which I have close association. I shall continue to offer the dedicated service which those areas have consistently received from him. I referred earlier to my experience in industry. In the late 1950s there was a great deal wrong with industry, in industrial relations, training and apprenticeship schemes. This was a time when many young qualified men and women left industry, disillusioned, for other careers. We are still witnessing some of the repercussions of that today. Before I was in industry, I was fortunate enough to be able to serve my country doing national service in the Army. Any of us who have had experience of the armed services will agree that when it comes to training, and particularly technical training, the armed services have an excellent record and a great deal to teach people in industry or education. Therefore, I hope that the Government will  press ahead with the modest and interesting scheme to give some of our young people the opportunity to spend a year in the Army, Navy or Royal Air Force. The success of the youth training scheme will, in my judgment, depend mainly upon the commitment and the quality of the input into the scheme and the leadership and expertise of the people involved. The scheme, if it is about anything, is about people. Success will not depend on the output of glossy brochures, extravagant expenditure or burgeoning bureaucratic expansion. Its success will be judged by standards of performance. I understand and hope that the MSC will monitor standards of performance closely. Success will depend also on the morale of the young people taking part in the scheme who do not live in easy times. The Government are to be congratulated on taking this initiative and on removing the threat of unemployment from young people for one year. It is a good thing that the scheme has been welcomed by leaders of the other political parties, the TUC and the CBI, as was pointed out by Sir Terence Beckett in his article in The Times on Tuesday. There will be problems with the scheme. In discussions I have had in my constituency, it has been suggested that there may be a risk that the scheme is open to exploitation and that some of the courses are not as broadly based as they could be. There is some anxiety about the life-skills element of the courses which may need looking at again, and about travel problems in rural areas. There is, therefore, no room for complacency. We have only just begun to get grips with youth unemployment and training. The scheme, as is admitted freely, is a start only. We are in the throes of a revolution in employment and self-employment. It was good to read in the local Norwich newspaper about the young girl of 16 who had started her own business of running a market stall. That is a piece of good news that should encourage us all. There is a revolution also in leisure, job sharing and the concept of early retirement, all of which need to be discussed a great deal in the House. The Manpower Services Commission and the people involved in education will need to work together to find the best way forward. There is a great deal to discuss about youth training. I welcome the new technical and vocational training initiatives announced by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister last November. We must encourage also craft and creative skills and the skills which will help those who wish to embark on self-employment. There is talk about education for capability. It is a subject which will need to be discussed further. My constituents believe that outdated attitudes and party slogans about employment, and particularly youth employment, are worse than useless. They expect the House to respond to the challenge, reject the extreme and extravagant and to get on with the job. We owe them no less.
