gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me today to make my maiden speech. I have listened to many speeches since the election brought me here. Some of those contributions were made with considerable force, and at times have departed from the time-honoured convention of not being controversial. At times that departure was deliberate. It is an approach that I reject entirely. I was not sent here to flout the traditions of the House. Parliament, and in particular the House of Commons, has given us a system of government which makes us still the envy of less happy lands. As newcomers to this place, we do it no service by ignoring its traditions and rules. The new constituency of Teignbridge, which I have the honour to represent, is made up of the former parliamentary constituencies of Totnes and Tiverton. I pay tribute to my two predecessors in those seats. The constituency of Totnes disappeared on reorganisation, but for nearly 30 years — indeed, since 1955 — it was represented by Ray Mawby. I know that there are Members on both sides of the House who remember him with great affection. He held ministerial office in the early 1960s as Assistant Postmaster General, and he was the first Conservative trade unionist to enter the House. It will not be taken amiss, I think, if I say that on account of his trade union origins he was subjected to great pressure when he first arrived, but it was a pressure that he bore with great fortitude. Tiverton, of course, still exists as a parliamentary seat. My hon. Friend the Member for Tiverton (Mr. Maxwell-Hyslop) needs no exposition from me. If I can discharge my obligations and duties towards the former Tiverton constituents in the same way as my hon. Friend did, I shall not go far wrong. The Boundary Commission is to be congratulated on its work of late, but its choice of constituency names has left much to be desired at times. In Teignbridge, at least, we have a name that stretches back into history. It was known as the Teignbridge area certainly before the Domesday Book was written. Indeed, in the 13th century it was touch and go whether what is now Newton Abbot would be known as Newton Bushall, after the developers, or whether it would be known as the borough of Teignbridge. Needless to say, the developers won. Even in a region that is fabled for its natural beauty, Teignbridge has a unique charm and variety. It has an extraordinary beauty that stretches from the rugged grandeur of Dartmoor to the tranquillity of the seaside resorts of Dawlish, Shaldon and Teignmouth. In Newton Abbot we have an industrial and market town which sits side by side with rural areas. Its people, too, as one would expect in the west country, have a tradition of fairness and reasonableness, and in general elections they always give a respectful and courteous hearing to people of all political persuasions, while at the same time invariably returning an appropriate Member. For all its great advantages, Teignbridge is not immune to the problems that beset the country as a whole. Unemployment in Devon has consistently exceeded national and regional percentages since 1971. Joblessness and the unremitting misery that it can bring in its train are a scourge to people of any age, but they have a particular poignancy in their effect on the young. Those who leave school to go straight into the dole queue soon find out that   they are in a Catch 22 situation. Because they are unemployed, they cannot find a job, but because they are unemployed they are less attractive to a potential employer. I am not speaking now of the youngster who leaves school to go into some form of higher education. Even in today's world, qualifications make a vast difference in the labour market. The fundamental problem lies with those young people who leave without qualifications. After all, they are in the majority. They see an apparently endless vista of joblessness stretching ahead of them, and that prospect can deprive them of hope itself. What can we say to young peple who are in that position? As an employer, I have often found that those who have little to offer have the greatest expectations of what is owed to them. The right to work is often asserted as if the fact that something is desirable automatically secures its existence. However, rights are only of use when they are within someone's gift, and the economic fact of life of which more and more people are becoming aware is that in this day and age the Government can no more create jobs than they can promise sunshine in spring. The youth training scheme is a bold and ambitious project to provide a year's work experience to all school leavers, but it does not guarantee them a job afterwards. Nothing could do that. However, it can instil into them the basic disciplines of a working life which will stand them in good stead for the rest of their working lives. It will also ensure that, at the end of a year of training, the trainee has something at last to offer an employer other than a sullen statement of his disillusion. One criticism of the scheme is that it will provide cheap labour. It would be dishonest to deny that earlier schemes allowed themselves to be used for such exploitation, but we have learnt from our mistakes. Much care has gone into the setting up of the scheme. While the risk exists, it must be a great deal less than it was. It would be a mistake if we were to abandon in-house training for placement training. There is a category of young people for whom placement training cannot be a realistic alternative. There is a type of young person who has rejected the formal apparatus of state education and who, to put it bluntly, would not last five minutes if they simply had to be placed with an employer. Just how successful such in-house training can be is well illustrated by the work-train programme in Newton Abbot. That is funded by the Manpower Services Commission but sponsored by the Newton Abbot town council. It operated a pilot scheme for the youth training programme. Of the 68 trainees who have undergone training there, 36 went on to or subsequently obtained employment, five went into further training schemes, one married and is now bringing up a family, and three were offered full-time employment but declined to accept. Such an achievement speaks for itself. It would be a mistake to think that the same or better results could be obtained simply by placement training. In many cases it would not. To end all in-house training infavour of placement training would, if it were proposed by the Government, be a grievous mistake. I have borne in mind what you said, Mr. Deputy Speaker, about short speeches. I also said that I would try to be non-controversial and I hope that I have succeeded in that. Whether the present rate of unemployment is due to this or previous Governments and whether too much or  too little is being spent on a youth training scheme are subjects for legitimate debate. However, there is surely one objective which ought to unite all hon. Members. If there is any measure which gives young people the prospect of lasting employment, it is surely something that we can all support. Whatever its deficiencies and limitations in practice might be, the youth training scheme is a measure which should give real hope to young people for the future. For that reason, if no other, it should command the support of all hon. Members.
