gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first time on which I have had the honour of addressing the Committee, I ask for the indulgence which is accorded to those making a maiden speech. I have listened with great interest to the debate and I will not detain the Committee very long with the few remarks I wish to add. Last night I had a very bad dream and it is as a result of that dream that I have decided I must add my contribution tonight. When I awoke I realised that I had been imagining numbers of my women constituents wearing new hats which cost less and brandishing mops and rolling pins which cost more. I realised that perhaps in some cases we had been making mountains out of molehills. It would be very presumptuous of me on an occasion like this to attempt to add my opinions on any of the major issues, but as a housewife and mother I can speak with tremendous sincerity about Purchase Tax. At first sight yesterday it seemed that things were very bad  indeed, but this morning, on looking into it further, I began to see that whereas yesterday I might have paid less for one item, tomorrow I might pay less for a different item and more for the other one. It was not exactly a case of what we lose on the swings we gain on the roundabouts, but we will not be taxed on everything. I represent a large industrial constituency and in Belfast, West we have a considerable amount of unemployment. We also very fully understand that it is necessary to take action and disciplinary measures before things become too serious rather than afterwards. I know that the unemployed will be very badly hit by many of these increases in the Purchase Tax on cheaper items and household goods, but I also realise that the people in Belfast, West and in the rest of Ulster who are looking for employment would definitely say to those in more fortunate positions across the water, ""At least you have the jobs to produce the pay packets to buy the goods. We should be glad to be in the same position."" People like that and our old-age pensioners will certainly be hit hard, but none of us likes Purchase Tax and all of us hope that when the Chancellor sees fit he will remove it as quickly as possible. When I first came to this House and listened to the Gracious Speech and what was to come forth in legislation, I realised that we should be extremely busy, but not that we should come to a Budget so soon. It is an experience, as a new Member, to realise that what may be so tremendously important and so very much talked about comes down so often to terms of the pence in our pockets. In Northern Ireland we shall be helped tremendously by the removal of the D scheme. Our handkerchief trade, particularly the fine end of the linen industry, will be very much helped, and I know that right hon. and hon. Members on both sides of the Committee will be glad to know that, whatever else the Chancellor has not done, he has been able to help us to solve our unemployment problem in this way. We are also grateful to the Chancellor for seeing fit to allow us this opportunity of showing what we can do when we get the opportunity to enter a competitive market, which we shall now be in as a result of the removal of the D scheme. It would seem that nowadays housewives invariably have to bear the brunt of all these smaller additions to the Purchase Tax. I am not talking about Purchase Tax in the luxury goods class, nor indeed am I referring to Purchase Tax on major items. I am talking about the small amount of tax put on a pot scrubber, or a broom, or on an ordinary household utensil. I do not believe that any thrifty housewife will go out and buy a scrubber unnecessarily. I think that perhaps she will make the old scrubber do for a little longer, if it means that it will cost a little more to buy a new one. We must remember that we are determined that we shall go forward and do our best for each person in the country and that, therefore, some sacrifice is entailed on the part of all of us. I should not like to think that the women of this country would be swept away by a desire for pedal-operated sanitary bins rather than a desire to attain security for the future of our children. We shall be prepared to see that anything we can do to help is done so far as possible, but we are not prepared to make unnecessary sacrifices. The days of that sort of altruism have gone. In the past, and I suppose it will always be so, when the wage packet came home at the end of the week it was the woman who spread it out and made it go round. Women are wonderful conjurers, whether the packet be good or bad, but we hope that this tax which is to be imposed will last for as short a time as possible. If it is to be a means of stabilising our economy then, in our own small way, in each household, we shall help the country, and that will be very well worth while. In a property-owning democracy, indeed in any democracy, responsibility must fall on everyone, and at a time like this, whatever sacrifices have to be made, it is no doubt necessary that they should be made. There are many anomalies in this tax and many people feel there are defects in it. But at a time like the present, while it is not a period of crisis, it is necessary for us, as one hon. Member said, to drive as far away from the cliff as possible. If this be a way of doing it, we should accept the truth of the old axiom that freedom consists in the willing acceptance of discipline. If there is 4d.  more on the price of a lipstick I do not know whether that is more important than the fact that we are still to have woollen blankets, and there will be no tax on these. Perhaps people will be glad to see lipstick used a little more carefully, and a little less freely, especially in view of the amount of lipstick left on cups in restaurants. I have the honour to represent a very large industrial constituency which has a great historical tradition. I know that my constituents and many other people in Northern Ireland and throughout this country will be chewing over the various Budget proposals which affect them most deeply, but I think that tonight it would do no harm if we tried to take a more balanced and longer view on the subject. It is very hard for any woman to assess exactly what it is going to cost her next week because some prices are down and others are up. I do not think that it is possible to say that there will be a tremendous increase in cost to the average family. Let us take a balanced view on this and hope that when next the Chancellor comes to us he will be in a more cheerful frame of mind because of the very co-operative effort made by everyone. I thank the Committee for listening to me and for giving me its indulgence for so long.
