gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me. You have given me something of an intimidating task, because not only do I follow two hon. Ladies in the debate and cannot compete with them for grace and dignity, but I also stand behind two colleagues from the medical profession. I think it appropriate that I should follow two hon. Ladies because I have succeeded the right hon. Lady the ex-Member for Cannock. This is a great honour and I am glad to begin in the traditional way by paying tribute to my predecessor, a lady who was a great servant of her party and who was, and still is, held in high regard throughout the country. I feel it a great privilege and honour that I have been done by the electors of Cannock in being chosen to succeed her. My constituency is one of those very large constituencies which might not have been there but for certain actions in the past. It is a constituency which has over 90,000 electors. It is based on the mining town of Cannock, although that has changed much in recent years, and it includes a vast and beautiful rural area. It also includes part of the County Borough of Wolverhampton. It is a constituency which has many problems. I particularly wanted to speak in this debate because so many of our problems are concerned with provision of health and hospital services. To this area over the last few years many young people have come to work. Many have come from the great cities of the Midlands and the North and from places where the amenities and facilities, cultural, educational and recreational, are much better than we can offer in Cannock. Most of them have come from areas where hospital facilities put ours to shame. We are part of the mid-Staffordshire district. This district has a population of upwards of a quarter of a million, but we have only 839 non-psychiatric beds. Since the National Health Service began we have had less capital allocation per head than any other part of the Birmingham region, and that region itself has been something of a poor relation. In Cannock, a town which is the centre of a district with 100,000 or more people, there are no accident facilities and no  out-patient facilities. There are 18 maternity beds and inadequate geriatric facilities housed in an old workhouse. I do not apologise for referring at length to the problems of my constituency because I know they are typical of the problems which many hon. Members on both sides of the House have. They are particularly typical of the problems which those of us face representing constituencies which contributed so much in the past to this country's industrial greatness. These areas have served Britain well but in recent years they have been sadly neglected by successive Governments of both parties. If I can do anything to prompt my party to look at the needs of my area I shall feel that my election was not in vain. The problems are, of course, legion. I believe that it is the duty of those of us who sit in this place to try if we can to offer some suggested solutions. Of course, the long-term problem is that we should always endeavour to remember that prevention is better than cure even if it is infinitely duller. We should be trying through the medium of the Health Service to create a situation in which fewer people need to go to hospital. That is why I was so glad when my right hon. Friend referred to home treatment, because so often domiciliary care is the real answer. So often, even at the moment, hospital beds are used unnecessarily. Very often, too, there is not enough liaison between consultants and the local medical officer of health and the staffs under his direction and command. It is ludicrous, for example, that so many people have to go to hospital to have stitches taken out. This is the sort of human problem we should look at, but it is only one side of the picture. We are still faced with grave difficulties in places like Cannock where there is a shortage of hospital beds and where a crash programme is necessary. It is no use anyone saying that this cannot be done. After all, when a building is in danger of collapse we shore it up. That is what we have to do to the National Health Service as it applies to many hospitals. The answer lies in meeting the twin challenge of time and cost. That, I suggest, can often effectively be met by   considering the possibilities of prefabrication. In Stafford we have a vast hospital, St. George's. It is a psychiatric hospital, and many patients there, who are my constituents, have been there for many years. Two years ago that hospital had a 40-bed prefabricated ward built in the grounds. It is entirely self-contained with all the proper facilities and extra day space for the patients. The cost of that 40-bed unit, including all the furniture and even the television set, was under £30,000. The time taken in the middle of winter to build it was 11 weeks. If that had been a traditional unit, not only would it have taken infinitely longer to build but it would have cost at least £80,000. It seems that the cost per head when considering expansion is about £2,000, and when we are talking of a new general hospital, including all the facilities necessary for it to work, it comes out at nearer £10,000. I am not suggesting that prefabricated buildings are the solution to all hospital problems, but they could solve some of the problems in the Cannock constituency and no doubt in the constituencies of many hon. Members present tonight. It is no use saying that because one cannot afford a Rolls Royce one cannot have a motor car. I should like to see the maternity problems tackled in Cannock in this way. We could have a 40-bed G.P. unit—and there is still a place for the G.P. unit—for about £50,000. That would include all the theatre facilities and would be about a third of the cost of a traditional building, yet it would take far less than a third of the time to erect. There is an added advantage in all this. The life span of a prefabricated unit is about 30 years, but ought we to build for longer than that? When considering the changing needs and standards of medicine we do not want monuments to twentieth century architecture, which has little to commend it, but effective hospitals. If we just build vast new district hospitals—although some of them are necessary and I shall mention one—in some cases we shall be creating what in 25 or 30 years time will be obsolete embarrassments. I hope that the Secretary of State will consider these things both on a national level and also as they concern my constituency. I hope that my right hon. Friend will not think that what I have said is in any way meant to suggest that we do not need a new district general hospital in Stafford, for we do, but I hope that he will give urgent and early consideration to the problems of my constituency and those of other hon. Members which must have similar constituency problems to mine. I hope that my right hon. Friend will take note—I am sure that he will—of the recent statement by the right hon. Member for Coventry, East (Mr. Crossman), who I am sorry to see is not here now. The right hon. Gentleman said that people are prepared to subscribe more for their own personal family security than they would ever be willing to pay in taxes. This was a perceptive observation. The right hon. Gentleman often makes perceptive observations. We on this side welcome it, because we strongly believe that it is necessary to give greater encouragement to private schemes if only to take the heat off the National Health Service at a critical time. I hope, above all, that we can take out of this tremendously difficult problem the bitterness and sectarian strife which have tended to creep into the debate far too often this afternoon. We on this side may differ in ideology and in approach from hon. Members opposite, but we are just as concerned as they are about the nation's health and welfare. It is nonsense and hypocritical of hon. Members opposite to suggest, as some of them have done by implication and some rather more directly, that we are attempting to create a service which will be good for the privileged few and bad for the many. Surely all men and women of good will, particularly hon. Members, can give a lead and show that the nation's health is the concern of us all and that we all of us in our own ways are determined to do what we can to rectify the situation where it needs rectifying and to maintain excellence where excellence exists.
