gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the Committee to allow me the indulgence which by tradition it accords to a maiden speech. May I use this special occasion to say how proud I am to represent the new Howden division. This division stretches over the Yorkshire Wolds to the Humber in the south, to the Derwent in the west. It is almost entirely agricultural and as it has some of the best farmed land in England its contribution to the national economy is very great. We often hear in this Chamber of the new industrial revolution, but I believe that the new agricultural revolution is very nearly as impressive. Farming techniques improve day by day and at great speed. The search for improvement in farming is often more intense than it is in industry. In my own division one can see this in the real and active interest of the farmers in such things as the experimental farm at High Mowthorpe, the new East Riding Agricultural Institute at Bishop Burton and the experimental farms that the B.O.C.M. runs at Barlby, and above all in the yields of the farms which are constantly increasing. The national overdraft is the centre of discussion today, but I do not want to discuss the Chancellor's remedies, not only because, as I am making a maiden speech, I do not want to enter into controversy, but because I believe they are sound. So  I offer no criticism at all of the total resources which the Chancellor sees fit to devote to the home front. However, I do believe that there is one feature of our economy about which no hon. Member who has travelled abroad can be happy, and that is the proportion of our resources which we are devoting to new modern roads. By new modern roads I mean roads devoted to motor traffic like the autobahnen in Germany and the motorways in America. Judging by the record of new motor roads built in the last twenty-five years nobody can doubt that we as a country have put a lower value on a modern road system as an economic asset than have America, Germany, Holland, Belgium, or most of the other modern countries. I shall not speak of the Americans' performance and programme because, obviously, the American circumstances are so entirely different from our own, but let us look at Germany, our chief competitor. In what we now call Western Germany there were 1,300 miles of autobahnen built before the war. The significant thing is that despite this vast, ready made layout of modern roads, and despite the fact that the Germans have had to use up much of their resources to rebuild their war shattered industries—despite all that, still they think it worth while and sound economics to be building more motorways today. During the Recess I met Dr. Goerner, the director of the German equivalent of our British Road Federation. He gave me a map which showed the new autobahnen actually financed and planned, to the extent of 250 miles. Of that mileage they expect to have 56 miles built within the next two years, and I personally do not doubt they will build them, because if one goes to Germany today one can see new autobahnen being built around Frankfurt and other places. An interesting thing is that they are using English machinery to do it. They think it is worth while, despite the pressure on the rest of their resources, to build these roads. Of course, one sees the same thing in Holland and Belgium, each with a modern road system but extending it today. We in this country have so far built no modern motorways, and we do not   expect to start on any for another two years. Since the war, as hon. Members who are in industry know, there has been a great vogue for time and motion study, often with great effect. One knows of firms which appeared to be efficient on the surface, but which have discovered, through this scientific study, that they could increase production by 30 per cent. or 40 per cent. by rearranging the flow of work through a factory and cutting out obstruction and keeping up a steady speed. I believe that if it were physically possible to have a super-industrial consultant to make a works study of England looked upon as one vast factory his figures would show that production now goes fairly efficiently and smoothly through the factories and within the factory walls, but that as soon as the goods reach the conveyor belt outside the factory walls, in other words the roads, the bottlenecks and hold-ups are so great that there is a real opportunity for a major increase in production. Our industries are so highly sectionalised that there is scarcely an article whose component parts do not have to go to a factory over our antique roads. I believe that by unduly rationing capital to that part of the process of manufacture, far from saving our resources we are almost certainly wasting them. In Europe and America, where they have great experience of motorways, there are plenty of research figures which show the actual net economic value of these roads. All these figures point to the same conclusion, that the savings in petrol, tyres, wear and tear, time, number of vehicles, reduction of distances, and so on, add up to such a saving that they represent a return on capital which no live businessman could possibly resist. Mr. Gerritson, Director of the Budget of the Dutch Ministry of Finance, has said: The yearly benefits to traffic, and therefore, to the community, of our new roads prove to be several times their yearly costs, including interest and depreciation of the initial construction capital together with maintenance charges. It is difficult to point to other possibilities of investment with such great returns. The modern motorway is not just an additional modernised road. The difference between, say, the Great North Road and the Cologne-Munich autobahn is that on one it is possible to average  safely just about double the speed on the other at less cost. A difference of that order is not simply a road improvement. It constitutes an entirely new form of transport which we in this country can no more ignore than our great grandfathers could ignore the railways in their day. I am stressing the motorway section of road transport because I believe that there we should get a bigger return rather than by patching up the old roads. Experience abroad seems to show that only the building of motorways provides the transport that industry needs, and one gets at the same time a syphoning off of heavy and fast traffic from the existing roads. Even a road like the A.1 might seem a good road and need less spending on it when, in years ahead, the heavier traffic has been syphoned off to the proposed London-Yorkshire motorway. We have to think of the alternative. As hon. Members know too well, the number of vehicles on our roads is going up by about 500,000 a year but the thing to be borne in mind is that all this torrent of new vehicles does not represent the full expansion of motoring. The full expansion is artificially kept in check by high taxation. There are some interesting figures in ""Lloyds Bank Review"" this month which suggest that a weekend motorist, travelling 4,000 miles a year, can now keep a car at a cost, including depreciation, of £110 a year, and of that figure £45 represents taxation. When one bears that in mind and the enormous increase in production which has been planned by all the motor companies, one realises that we have only to have a slight easement in taxation and rise in incomes for the torrent to become an entirely uncontrollable flood. We are grateful to the Chancellor that at this time of general pruning he has allowed the road programme to stand, but we must remember that the present programme is in itself only a postponement of what we really need and that in this matter the longer the postponement the greater the cost and the problem. I am sure that every hon. Member will agree that we want our people to have motor cars. Not only do motor cars give them a fuller life but I believe that when every family in the country is in sight   of owning a car there will be a bigger incentive to hard work than even television and washing machines provide today. I conclude by thanking the Committee for the very courteous hearing that it has given to me today.
