gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is my maiden speech, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I want to thank you for allowing me to catch your eye in this important debate. In thanking you I want also to thank your staff. They have acted not only as first-class guides and reliable sources of information for us new Members, but with their impeccable manners and strong sense of tradition they do so much to set the tone of this establishment. For that, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I give you and them my sincere thanks. I am proud to stand in the Chamber because never before in history has Gloucestershire, West been represented by a Conservative Member. For 61 years the constituency was held by the Labour Party. Before that it was represented by the Liberal Party. Sir Charles Dilke was probably the Liberal Party's most celebrated  Member. My immediate predecessor was a man who, I understand, was well liked on both sides of the House. In that respect I shall seek to emulate him. As I have said, the 61-year hold that the Labour Party had on Gloucestershire, West has been broken. That has been achieved by many hard-working and dedicated Conservative Party supporters from in and around West Gloucestershire. I pay tribute to them because without their efforts and the sterling work of my agent, Miss Angela Darricote, I should not be standing in the Chamber now. To be the Member of Parliament for Gloucestershire, West is for me an honour. I am sensible of the responsibility that is placed on my shoulders. In the southern half of West Gloucestershire lies the Forest of Dean, traditionally an area of mining, farming and forestry. Due, perhaps, to its geographical location, the people have developed a special and individual personality. Over the years the mining industry has declined, to leave only free miners who operate with small teams to dig coal in their own right. That sense of independence and free enterprise permeates widely through the Forest of Dean, because there are many such small businesses in haulage, building, engineering and the tourist trade. I hope that the Conservative Budget of opportunity and my party's commitment to offer more of the same will unleash the frustrations of the foresters, for their positive reaction will be a useful contribution to the welfare of the Dean and perhaps a barometer of our success in government. At the northern end of West Gloucestershire the majority of people are involved in agriculture and horticulture. It is to their credit that in expectation of this early debate on the common agricultural policy they have already been in touch with me so that, with their help, and as I am a farmer myself, I am able to speak for them from a position of first-hand experience. It is sad that today, in spite of extra production and higher output, farmers' real incomes are at their lowest level for 10 years. There is no more dependable source of food for the British housewife than British agriculture. It is in the long-term interests of our housewives that British agriculture should flourish. Low incomes for farmers have led to a lack of capital investment in modernisation and future projects. That, coupled with high taxation, the uncertainties created by the previous Government on capital transfer tax and their attitude towards the EEC gave just cause for concern in agriculture. A radical change of attitude and direction is needed. United Kingdom farmers ask for no special favours but seek an opportunity for fair competition with our EEC partners. We in West Gloucestershire are pleased that my right hon. Friend the Member for Worcester (Mr. Walker) has been appointed Minister of Agriculture. We are sure that, with his usual enthusiasm and resourcefulness, he will champion the joint causes of farmers and housewives. The pig industry, although highly efficient, faces important problems with the application of MCAs, making imported European pigmeat cheaper than that produced at home. I know several pig producers in West Gloucestershire who are depending for the continuation of their business upon the right decisions being made here today. Due to unfair competition, the United Kingdom pig breeding herd is in serious decline and many meat processing factories are hard put to make the continuation of their businesses worth while, as imported pigmeat is now so much cheaper than that produced at home. An almost similar situation exists in the beef industry, where subsidised imports, principally from Ireland, are seriously affecting our market. To restore confidence in those sectors of agriculture, positive action is needed now to eliminate unfair competition. The situation in the dairy industry is little better as the EEC Commission thrashes around trying to find a solution for our ultra-efficient industry and has so far produced only an unacceptable system of levies. I was extremely pleased to learn of the 5 per cent. across-the-board devaluation of the green pound and the 10 per cent. reduction for pigmeat. That will go some way to easing the difficulties faced by agriculture. Much of British farming will see that as a positive incentive and commitment by the Government to improve the lot of the British farmer. Like many other Members of Parliament, I believe that our future lies in  encouraging individuals to do all that they can for themselves, by ensuring fair competition and a reduction in the role of the State. The future of our country lies in individual enterprise. In urging fair competition, I applaud the Government for their commitment to that end.
