gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As the youngest Member on this side of the Committee, I think that it is particularly appropriate that I should address myself to the subject of pensions. I am profoundly convinced that the unfair treatment of pensioners before 15th October was uppermost in the minds of many young people when they cast their vote on that day. I believe that this is a tribute to the idealism of so many young people who are too often denigrated by their elders. During the past week hon. Members on both sides have expressed their strong opposition to restrictive practices. I am told that there are two restrictive practices which obtain in this Chamber. One requires me to be non-controversial, and the other requires hon. Members to listen to me with a tolerance and courtesy to which I am not accustomed. While I find the latter restrictive practice most commendable, I am not so sure about the first, because it is very difficult to be restrained and non-controversial in the face of the complacency which has previously been shown concerning the problem of old-age pensioners. There has been far too much complacency on this subject over the years. There can be no room for complacency now, because the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposal will do more in one fell swoop than all the sanctimonious protestations in the years prior to 15th October. If there is any criticism which may be made, it can only be about the sources from which we draw the revenue to pay the pensions. Perhaps we may pay more attention to the question of spending on defence and our overseas commitments in that respect. Before dealing more thoroughly with the question of pensions, I should like to take the opportunity to observe a custom of the Committee and to refer to the former Member for Blackley, Mr. Eric Johnson. Despite our political differences, I would be the first to say that he cared a great deal for the old people in the division, and, within the limits in which he was allowed to work, did as much as he could for them. He was generally liked and popular among people of all political persuasions. His parting shot to me after the election result was declared was that, because he was 67, he would hold me to our promises on old-age pensions. I am glad to say that he will be a beneficiary of my right hon. Friend's proposals. I am as delighted to support an increase in his pension as I was to assist in his retirement. It is an essential prerequisite to an equitable society that strong Government action should be taken to protect those least able to protect themselves—the elderly, the sick, the handicapped, the widows, and the infirm. There can be  no substitute by means of private charity. This is the job of the Government and this is the job that is being done. It is this social aspect of budgetary policy rather than any narrow technical consideration that concerns me and, I believe, concerns ultimately the people of this country. A Budget does not merely balance the nation's books. It does not merely dictate economic priorities and the direction of economic growth. It also can be used to regulate social priorities. It is as much a reflection of our moral concern for our fellow men and women as it is an exercise in accounting. I believe that the Budget this time has been used in this way as an instrument of social justice. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has used the weapon in a way which demonstrates certain attitudes to the way in which people acquire their wealth, attitudes which, in my submission, are the bedrock of the philosophy of hon. Members on this side of the Committee. When we talk about a tax on capital gains, this is not merely another method of obtaining more finance for pensions. It is recognition of the fact that there are some people who earn their money in an unproductive way and that they have to give up some of this money to the community which has helped to create that wealth. Today, the teacher, the public servant or the ordinary employee of a company has a right to kick when he sees the evasion and avoidance of tax that goes on in a variety of ways, particularly among people who are fortunate enough to have their own business or who can invest on the Stock Exchange. In this atmosphere of the devil take the hindmost, the hindmost has been the man or woman living on a fixed income, particularly the retirement pensioner. It is not possible to assess the extent or the intensity of human misery which has been caused primarily by the sheer financial inadequacy of the retirement pension. The Salford Report talks of old people who have to go to bed at six o'clock in the evening because they cannot afford the coal with which to keep themselves warm. Any general practitioner can tell of cases of malnutrition among old-age pensioners who cannot afford to buy food and to whom our elementary needs are an unascertainable   luxury. There is also the wounded pride of those to whom National Assistance, whatever its intention, is seen as the twentieth century equivalent of the old poor law. Very often, they would rather starve than have recourse to it. Rightly or wrongly, this is often the attitude. In addition to 1¼ million old-age pensioners who are forced to seek National Assistance, there are also an estimated ¾ million who do not seek National Assistance because they either do not know of their entitlement or are too proud to take it. Remember that this was the generation which was forced to march to London for bread. Talk of donations hardly helps to alter these attitudes. The way in which the present system affects old people can probably be best assessed and most graphically illustrated by specific references. Only two or three months ago, I called on an old lady in my constituency of Blackley and she told me that the 4s. National Assistance allowance which was given for coal had been withdrawn. The reason was that it was simmer—summer in Manchester, on a night when my fingers were freezing to my canvassing card and the sky was that shade of grey which only a Mancunian can know and still love. That old lady was denied the 4s. which she needed for coal. I took up the matter with the National Assistance Board, who replied that it was summer and that she was not entitled to the money but agreed to look into the matter. The Board sent an investigator, who decided on a compromise. He felt that as the lady was nearly 80, she needed assistance in window cleaning. She was given an additional 1s. 6d. a week, and this at a time when we were told that the economy had seldom been stronger. I therefore hope that as the increase in pensions is to be postponed for four months, immediate action and attention will be given to assist pensioners over these coming months during the winter. We now have a Government who are acting in a rather remarkable and unique way. They are actually doing what they promised to do. This seems to be the point which is causing so much difficulty to hon. Members opposite. But the whole questions of public service pensions, the need for an annual review and a comprehensive super-  annuation system need to be tackled at the earliest opportunity. While I am delighted at the increase to 30s for the 10s. widow, there remain many curious anomalies in the system with regard to widows' pensions, not least the arbitrary 50-year age barrier. I would add a word not so much on the financial aspects of the problem, but on the human side. In my constituency there are many families who are separated through municipal housing. Their children grow up, they go to live on overspill estates and they, in turn, have children. Their problem there is one of loneliness. It is compounded by the problem of distance and the expense of travel. To my mind, it is an act of sheer humanity to allow these people the privilege of cheaper fares to facilitate their much diminished mobility and the possibility of going to see their children and their grandchildren. Just as man cannot live by bread alone, so the problem of old people cannot be resolved purely by Budgets alone. It is in that context that I hope we will hear later of more money being allocated, not so much in pensions but in assisting the care of the elderly. We have to end, for example, the near-Dickensian horror of old people who have lived a lifetime together being separated in old people's homes, such married couples being allowed the privilege of walking together once a week. I should like to see a modification of the earnings rule to assist those who can still do a useful service to the community. More important is the fact that work at 65 should no longer be a matter of economic necessity, but should become a matter of choice. The Budget displays a new attitude to the widow, the elderly and the sick. It is a recognition of society's obligation, and to the extent that this has happened it is a breath of fresh air. If it fails to tap some of the sources of wasteful expenditure which I mentioned earlier, I hope that this will be only in the short term. Every fairminded and humane person will welcome the. Budget. I welcome it, not only on my own behalf but on behalf of the people of Blackley. I thank hon. Members, on both sides, for the tolerance and indulgence they have extended to me and which, I am sure, after this occasion, will not be extended again.
