gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have been told that I am nearly the last maiden in the House. Accurate or not—and it is a little strange for a grandfather to be thus referred to—I am glad that I have lasted to this most important date in my constituency calendar, the debate on the Price Review and agricultural affairs. I admit that I was a little worried as to whether I would catch the eye of Mr. Deputy-Speaker. As an auctioneer, I am more used to having people trying to catch my eye. Before mentioning the Price Review, which is perhaps a more controversial subject than is usual for a maiden speech, I hope that I may say something about my constituency. South-West Norfolk has been very fortunate since the war. We have had both Mr. Denys Bullard and the late Mr. Sydney Dye as our Members. Though very different personalities, they were outstanding countrymen, and I feel sure that the House missed them greatly. Many Members, not confined to this side of the House alone, I am sure, will hope that Mr. Bullard""s return will not be long delayed. My opponent, Mr. Hilton, was also a very good member. Having been born and bred in Norfolk, as was my father before me, I am very proud to represent my home. I suppose it would be considered controversial if I were to say that we in South-West Norfolk feel that we are politically ahead of a lot of people. They say that how South-West Norfolk votes one year so the country will vote at the next election. But, leaving that aside, we can give a lead to the country, first, in productivity and, secondly, in labour relations. South-West Norfolk is one of the finest farming constituencies in the country. The land varies from the productive fens near Downham Market, where I live, growing wheat and all the root crops—potatoes and sugar beet, chicory, celery and carrots—to the light Brecklands around Swaffham which were formerly sheep walks, but which now grow barley and sugar or are used for forestry, and so eastwards to the mixed farms round Dareham. There are large farms—too large in some cases—but also a considerable number of smallholdings, the Norfolk County Council owning the largest smallholding estate in the country. I have been a member of the Smallholdings Committee of the Norfolk County Council since 1949, and in this connection I hope that the Minister will shortly receive the Wise Committee's Report and that it will look favourably on increasing the numbers and size of holdings on—and I emphasise this—suitable land. It does not need any words of mine to say that labour relations in farming are an example to the rest of industry. If the increase in productivity had been attained in other industries, we should have no economic problems at all. We are not, however, solely confined to farming. There are excellent modern industries, with first-class records of productivity and labour relations, including clock and furniture making, trailer works, fireworks—and here I add that I have none in my pocket—and light engineering. We are also very proud of the Service connection in South-West Norfolk. We have the R.A.F. stations at Marham Feltwell and Swanton Morley, and the Army training area at Mundford. They are not only outward signs of our defences but they provide very welcome civilian employment. Since farming is the largest industry in South-West Norfolk, I wish to mention its contributions to the life of the nation and the problems which face it. I should like here to pay tribute to the former Minister of Agriculture, my right hon. Friend the Member for Bedford (Mr. Soames). He did a first-class job in this none too easy post and earned the sincere respect of all sections of the industry. He could be really tough with the farmers on occasions, but I think he fought well for them in the Cabinet. At the same time I would very much like to wish the present Minister all success in his job, despite his rather unhappy start. All the agricultural Ministers are very likeable personalities; unfortunately it appears that their colleagues do not believe in agriculture or understand the part it can play in the affairs of the nation. The Price Review in total will hit agriculture hard. I wish only to mention two items which will greatly affect   Norfolk. The first is corn. The really savage cuts will hurt the smaller arable farmer more than the bigger farmer. I estimate that a 50-acre smallholder will have a cut in his income of 25s. a week. The beef increase of 4s. is, in my opinion, far too small; 10s. could easily have been given. I spent yesterday morning—perhaps hon. Members may say when I should have been here—selling fat cattle in King's Lynn Market. There the whole of the farming community were mentioning the shortage of stores, fatteners having to pay between £10 and £11 a cwt. for them and then selling them at about £9. I believe that we should give a bigger increase to fatteners. The real grouse of agriculturists is just that incomes have been going down in relation to the cost of living while all around them others, including myself, have had increases. That is their real grouse and, whatever else is said today, that is how the farmers see the position. Rightly or wrongly, and I think rightly, there has been a real loss of confidence in this Government over the Price Review. Farmers and farm workers alike had been so buoyed up with promises of such great things to come from a Labour Government that they really began to believe them. This started with a speech by the First Secretary of State and Secretary of State for Economic Affairs which was made in my constituency and which has been referred to on many occasions. I think that Swaffham has become quite a notorious place as a result. It was later printed as the Labour Party's new policy on agriculture. As the Minister wrote in the Lynn Advertiser The main objective of Labour""s new policy will be to ensure that the incomes of farmers and farm workers move rapidly towards their industrial equivalents. Do hon. Members wonder that they feel badly let down now? The industry has also begun to realise that the Labour Party, with honourable exceptions, has little interest in agriculture""s great value to the nation. Remarks made today by hon. Members opposite and remarks by at Question Time the other day by the hon. Member for Sheffield, Attercliffe (Mr. John Hynd) and the hon. Member for Woolwich, West (Mr. Hamling) criticising even this paltry  award seemed to command a wide measure of respect from hon. Members opposite. I should like to mention some facts and some problems in the agricultural industry and, I hope, make a few constructive suggestions. The facts which, unfortunately, are not understood by the public are these. In Great Britain we are producing a large proportion of the food consumed here, thus slashing the import bill. Nevertheless, last year British imports of temperate foodstuffs cost well over £1,000 million and were equal to at least three months of exports. Secondly, producers in Great Britain are highly efficient. Those people who say they are not are just talking nonsense and have not been on an East Anglian farm. Hon. Members need not take my word for this. Mr. Rees Mogg, the former editor of the Financial Times, writing in the Sunday Times, on 21st March, said: International comparisons show British farming to be far ahead of British industry in its record of productivity. It takes twelve men to produce as much food in Britain as ten men can produce in America. But it takes twenty-five men to produce in Britain industrial goods that ten men can produce in America. If British industry had kept up with farming, we should not have had a balance of payments problem since 1955. The conclusion to be drawn from this is that there is a very strong case for increasing home food production. I know that our farmers could do it and, with the world population explosion, surely we cannot and must not rely for ever on cheap food grown abroad. Again—and this is a fact which does not seem to be appreciated by the British public—prices of the main British farm products are much lower than European prices. As everyone who has taken a holiday on the Continent knows, meat is far dearer there than it is here. The new guaranteed price for barley here is 5s. cwt. less than the French price and 12s. less than the German price. Of course, farming has its problems as well. Modern mass production methods and the formation of vast enterprises managed from afar create a real social and human problem, and this is something to which all Ministers must pay a great deal of attention in the future. The poultry industry is an example of this. There is no easy solution, but it would be a very bad thing   for this country if many of those who at present are farming their own land were to become the paid employees either of the State or of huge remote-controlled concerns. The most urgent problem, however, is the relationship between the earnings of the farmers and skilled farm workers and the earnings of their opposite numbers in industry. In passing, may I emphasise the great skills of the farm worker. He is a skilled mechanic, able to drive, service and repair combines, tractors and the like. He can operate large grain storage plants and apply accurately sprays and manures. Farm workers are really skilled men, and there is a shortage of younger skilled men on the land. This, in turn, will cut output; I have no doubt about that whatever. Yet the National Farmers"" Union hardly ever manages to agree wages with the N.U.A.W. I think that a very bad thing. Their reason is fear of prejudicing their case at the Price Review. I should like to suggest that the Minister should state that an offer of increased wages sufficient to keep skilled younger workers on the land would not prejudice a claim for reimbursement. Secondly, that the T.U.C. should acknowledge—which it does not at the moment—that skilled workers in agriculture should not be kept on the bottom rung of the ladder. There would be considerable benefits from this. Sources of friction would be removed. Larger farmers would have a share of a skilled labour force without which increased production, particularly of livestock, cannot be undertaken. Working family farmers would have a better income, because a large part of what they are paid for their crops is represented by the labour element. Since they are working farmers, their income would be increased in this way. I was glad to hear what the Minister said about my next point. I had written it down. Perhaps I may be forgiven for saying it over again, as he probably said it better than I shall. I hope that we shall never become two nations, either in any wider sense or in the narrower sense of town versus country. I was born and bred in the countryside, the grandson and great grandson of farmers. When I left school, my father said to me, as every father does, ""Well, boy, what are you going to do?"" I said that I should like to be a  farmer. When I said this, I was quickly told, ""Boy, you have not enough brains and I have not enough money."" So I became an auctioneer. That was in the 1930s, when one needed money to stick on a farm. Since then, apart from my work on farms and in cattle markets, I have served in the Territorial Army with a company of Norfolk farm workers, who are the finest men one could serve with. I had five years as a prisoner of war, surrounded by the Highland Division. If that was not enough to make me tolerant of other people""s views—[Laughter.]—when one has heard chanters played for four or five hours at a time, one beomes a little intolerant—political life in South-West Norfolk should have made me so. I say in all sincerity to those living in the towns, the vast majority of our countrymen, that British agriculture has a great deal to contribute to the wellbeing of the nation if it is given a chance. In particular, East Anglia, the food store of the nation, could enable imports to be cut drastically. The agricultural industry, however, must feel that it is wanted and farmer and farm worker alike be assured of fair pay for a fair day""s work. I consider myself extremely fortunate to be a Member of the House. Now that I have completed this speech, which had a longer gestation period than usual, I hope that on future occasions I shall be able to contribute something of value to other debates.
