gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for giving me this opportunity to speak so early in such an important debate, and I must ask for the indulgence of the House, as this is my first attempt. It is particularly necessary for me, because my predecessor at Torrington was described by the hon. Member who congratulated him on his maiden speech as having ""political blood in his veins on both sides of the family."" This was borne home to me shortly after the General Election when a telephone rang and a voice boomed into my ears, ""This is Asquith's ghost speaking and I am very displeased with you"". This is, to my mind, a social rather than an economic problem that we are discussing. Is it economically sound to say that things should be allowed to run their course, thereby driving people from the remoter areas into the overspill of cities and making a mockery of the green belt? Conversely, we say, as this Bill does, that it is better to allow people to work where they live, which is what they want to do. In the end, it is in the best interest of all of us that they should be allowed to do so. It is untrue to say that there are just a few black spots of unemployment. That belies the facts. There are vast rural areas which have a creeping paralysis of hidden unemployment, which cannot be measured in unemployment percentages, and one such area is the South-West. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Llanelly (Mr. J. Griffiths) did not in fact mention us, but as a haulier and a farmer in my own division it is a problem which causes me great anxiety. I was given a very good tip by a very important person. It was that when making a maiden speech, one should make one point only and say it in several different ways. Having a very large division, stretching from the outskirts of Exeter to the Atlantic cliffs above Bade. I must say a word about seasonal unemployment, which we have in such coastal holiday towns as Bideford, and which I am pleased to see is mentioned in this Bill. As the tide of holiday-makers pours in, so conversely our unemployment figures fall. They fell from 4·8 per cent. in February this year to 2·2 in July. Already they are rising again and today in this town they are 3·5 and likely to rise considerably higher. Of course, we have conflicting interests in towns of this kind between those involved in the holiday trade, who fear that more industries will mean loss of their residue of labour, and, on the other side, those who want security of employment all the year round. To match up these two conflicting interests, it has been suggested that we might start a football pools firm, but now that there is some mysterious way by which one can punt on the cricket analysis in the summer, I do not think that would be much good. The local council has attracted new industry under the old Act, but this Bill is far superior to that Act, as my right hon. Friend said, because it anticipates trouble rather than waiting until it is already with us. However much help the Government make available for a local authority, it is up to both the authority and local employers to use it to the best advantage. I return to my main point. This hidden unemployment cannot be put as a percentage. Large numbers of young men and women are leaving the remoter districts because of a lack of diversity  of opportunity. That is particularly true in all the remote parts of the South-West and it is no truer anywhere than in Torrington. It is a fact that, although we country people are no less fecund than the city dweller, 105 schools have closed in Devon since the war. This is partly due, I know, to the closing of all-age schools, but mainly it is the result of a lack of pupils and a lack of teachers That is the start of the vicious circle. These people go to the towns. The only real employment in our part of the world is farming, and as farms become more efficient and mechanised they employ less labour. The birthrate drops. The children are sent to town schools. They get a whiff of the town in their nostrils, and the village life, centred as it is around its church or chapel, seems tame by comparison. We want three or four essentials. For a start, we want recognition that the farm worker is no longer a yokel with a bit of straw in his mouth, but is as efficient as, if not more efficient than, his city counterpart. We want increased amenities, the amenities taken for granted in the towns—electricity and water—and the ability to get from A to B in public transport. It is a fact that in the South-West Electricity Board's area, only 64 per cent. of the farms and cottages outside the towns are connected in this way. This is roughly six out of ten—an appalling figure. Whole hamlets are without main water, and branch lines are closing down. Perhaps the main problem is that of communication. We badly need better roads, it is no good trying to send industry down to us in any quantity unless first our roads are improved. If we are to stop this drift from the land, we must take action more drastic and also more expensive than is proposed in the Bill. If we do this, not only shall we prevent an increase in the large cities, but the need for this Bill will not be so acute, for so many men and women find their way into just those towns which depend upon very few industries and which are now having these very high unemployment figures. If it is possible to fulfil these conditions, not only shall we be doing a great social service, but, by holding our rural population, we shall be able more easily to deal with the problem of overspill. We do not want heavy industries. We want industries which will use our own raw materials, such as timber or china clay, thereby obviating the necessity of a long and expensive double haul. Perhaps, with hon. Members here from the Stoke-on-Trent area, I hardly dare suggest that it is no longer necessary to put the potteries next door to the coal mines, but it is sufficient to say that I haul china clay from Devonshire to Stoke-on-Trent and pottery back to Bristol. Alternatively, we want the type of industry which has just come to Torrington, which gives its name to the division I represent, in which neither bulky raw material nor a bulky finished product is used. If we can do this, then, having started with a social problem, we shall find that we end up with a sound economic policy. If we encourage a thriving countryside, dependent not only on farming and on holiday trade as in our case but also on light industry, we shall have diversity of opportunity for our young people and we shall keep our community and our country alive.
