gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will bear with me in this, my first attempt to   address it. In my constituency of South-West Bethnal Green, there is to-day a consciousness of the immense value of controls and rationing as they operated throughout the war period. In this particular constituency, that period is viewed as one in which the people have been more prosperous in terms of real things, than they have ever been during this century. The average inhabitant has been better fed and clothed, but, I regret to say, owing to enemy action, he has not been so well housed. The legislation which this Bill proposes to prolong would not have been so good from their point of view, if the conditions had been similar to those of the period 1914–18. That was the second most prosperous period that that constituency has had, but it was greatly inferior to the period of 1940–45, owing to the fact that wages crept upwards following intense inflation. During the remainder of the period of restricted supplies, the functioning of the same controls, or the same type of controls, the regulation of prices, and rationing must go on. Perhaps I may say a few words about a particular control under which I operated as a merchant during the last six years, as being an example of a satisfac-factory control and one that has fulfilled, and is to-day fulfilling, the functions for which it was set up—functions which I trust this Bill will enable to be carried on for such a period as may be necessary and one which, in the opinion of those best able to judge in the trade, will be long. I refer to the Paper Control under the Ministry of Supply. That control had an extremely difficult job to perform owing to the fact that paper in one form or another is vitally necessary to the country. I do not know how this House would proceed for a day without the use of paper. It has been termed one of the vital essentials of civilisation. I speak with some knowledge of this business during the first and second world wars, although in the first world war I was absent from business for some three and a half years in France, but I kept in touch. During the first world war, when there was little or no control, the price of one particular commodity in this business rose from £14 a ton to £250 a ton and dropped to about £100 a ton immediately after the war, and then rose again to £175 a ton during the three years that  succeeded it and thereafter, during the next three years, dropped back to £28. That post-war process took between five and six years—nearly three years of intense inflation and then about three years of intense deflation, and that is what we are asking shall not be allowed to happen to-day. I deserted the Party that occupied these Benches in 1922 for this very reason, because it was a train without a driver, a steamer without a pilot, a motor car in which the occupants were in the back seat and the engines were running full out and going nobody knows where. That was the position of this country after the last war. I venture to say, if I may still use this particular control as an illustration, that the more successful we are in reopening and redeveloping the export trade—and this particular industry, paper, must fulfil its part in the general export development—the longer the control will have to exist. It is a very simple economic proposition. Let me take as an example the main export of the paper trade—the printings and writings for which the mills of this country have a world-wide reputation and for which there is a tremendous and unsatisfied demand, especially in the Dominions of Australia and New Zealand and other portions of the British Commonwealth. We can increase that export trade to surpass the tonnage of 1939 at a relatively early date, but only under the condition that the home market is kept somewhat shorter of supplies as a consequence. If you are going to keep the home market short of supplies, I suggest that, if you are going to leave off control, you create the very condition that makes for some degree of inflation. But controls perform other functions as well. They fulfil the function of regulating the use of the material, and I do not think that, in the interests of our export trade and its stimulation, any hon. Member of this House would object to continue to use the small, single-sheet notepaper for large portions of his correspondence because the double sheet is taboo under the control for reasons of internal economy. Similarly, he would not object to restrictions in margins in the publishing trade through a certain Regulation which limits the quantity of material that goes into the production of these goods. Controls are essential, first, to limit the price to set a ceiling price for any com-   modity, during a period of shortage, and that restriction lies far less onerously on the industry if it is guided by the control itself in the usages of the material and in the prohibition of its use in wasteful or luxury directions, if need be. Naturally, the conditions vary as between one control and another. In one sense, may I tell my hon. Friends, I have felt a greater freedom in this war under control than I felt in any of the previous 20 years' business and manufacturing experience that I have had in this country. I only had a very short phase before 1914—about two years—in industry, but I lost completely that sense of any reality of policy between the two wars. I felt that there was drift, and I trust that now, in the continuation of controls, they will become more and more generalised, less and less difficult from the point of view of detailed returns which will not be insisted upon as time goes on. When we compare the valuable possibilities, as well as actualities, in so many of these controls, as general guides and stimulators of exports, it is gratifying to see, only in the last few days, that materials have been granted in extra quantities on the condition that the firms began to pay attention to the export trade. Exports should become a prominent example of the way in which controls can be a good thing. I am convinced, from my experience of this particular control, that controls have been operated very closely in consultation with the industries and trades for which they are acting as controllers, and perhaps there has been one advantage in having, in so many of these controls, people who have been prominently associated with these trades. There has been a very close understanding of the needs of the trade, and the best possible action has been taken in order to bring about smooth working between the control and the traders. I am going to say that, unfortunately, a real return to peace-time conditions inevitably must work somewhat slower. We start with the raw materials coming in to this country in limited quantities, and with controls necessary for their equitable distribution between the manufacturers concerned. We have to create an export trade out of these materials sufficient to pay for these credits, and, at the same time, to build up a currency reserve to carry on buying further materials. A short-sighted view in the next two or three  years means lack of work in our factories through lack of materials in every direction. So you get the real imports, the export trade rebuilt, you build up credit and currency reserves and your trade begins to revolve with ever greater speed, but you cannot dash into it shortsightedly. In this export policy, you are bound to maintain a certain degree of shortage in the home market. Ignore exports, and you can rebuild the stocks in Britain very rapidly and there could be an apparent super-abundance for a year or two, but you will not then have the foreign currency available for raw materials through which the industrial machine will continue to operate. When I try to buy a single machine, and I am quoted two years for delivery, I wonder how are the bulk of our industries, outside engineering, getting on when their mills are working the same plants six years older to-day than they were in 1939, and when it will take far more than two years to get this part of your war-time industry back to the level of1939. But even 1939 is no criterion. It is essential that we should go far above the level of 1939, and it is going to take far more than two years to reach that peak of efficiency. To build our export trade is going to be easy in the first year or two, but more difficult as time goes on and world stocks are replenished. I thank the House very much for their kind and indulgent attention.
