gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising at this late hour I feel I ought to apologise doubly, especially in view of the fact that I have to crave the indulgence which the House so generously affords to Members who are making their maiden speeches. The general tenor of the Debate to-day makes me feel that we are seeking ways and means of adjusting ourselves to the new conditions caused by the discovery of the atomic bomb. I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister will think of it in another direction as well. I hope he will not close his mind to the suggestion that we should discard the atomic bomb altogether, and that in fact we should strive to discover the best ways and means of using atomic power for the benefit of the country in every possible way rather than think of it as a weapon of war. I must confess that when I heard the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) say this afternoon that we should make the bomb and store it, I had a sinking feeling. I represent a very badly blitzed town, and I have an intimate knowledge of the devastation and the desolation caused, not by the atomic bomb, but by what one would term a mere 1,000 or 2,000 lb. bomb. If the common man, reading the newspaper to-morrow, discovers that one of the principal suggestions emanating from the Opposition is that we should make these atomic bombs and store them, he will have very great doubts, indeed, whether the last war was fought and won and whether the cost was really worth while. Cannot we cultivate the habit of speaking of atomic power more often than of the atomic bomb? It is a tragedy of the age that even the adolescents and children speak of atomic bombs as if they were mere playthings, whereas we know, from painful experience, that they can bring us the greatest tragedy of all. Listening to the right hon. Gentleman for Woodford I recalled very readily the words that Kipling, I think, wrote some time ago: Nations have passed away and left no traces. History gives the naked cause of it. One simple, single reason, in all cases They fell because their people were not fit. We have to have a new attitude of mind in this problem, and I hope and pray that the Prime Minister, when he meets President Truman, will seek ways and means  of persuading the people of America, and indeed the people of Russia, too, that the atomic bomb ought to be completely discarded. Unfortunately, we cannot forget it. Sir Lawrence Bragge, in a memorable broadcast early last year, I think it was, said that for a single issue the atomic bomb represented the greatest integration of brain effort that history can show us. The President of the Royal Society expressed the view that he was sorry that, in the stress of war, science had had to be a conscript, and that the fruits of scientific research had had to be used for destruction rather than for the healing and the health of the nation. I think the scientists of today hope for the time when they can apply their research knowledge in the same may as Mme. Curie applied her discovery of radium. When we encourage the scientist and give him free scope to engage in his research in order to bring about happiness, prosperity, health and healing then we shall, I feel, get the very best from him. During the years 1939–45 this House did a great work, and I know it is very much to its credit that mere sentiment and cheap emotion make no appeal to it. But, surely, that does not mean that we are unmindful of the growing anxiety in the hearts of men and women today on account of the further threat of war as a result of the discovery of the atomic bomb. It does not mean that because we want to approach these problems dispassionately, and apply all sorts of thought to the solution of them that we have no feeling, no heart as it were, for the people who are wondering what the future holds for them. I know we prefer The even heart that seldom slurs its beat, The cool head that weighs the heart's desires. The seeing eye that measures hands and feet, The soul unbroken, when the body tires. These are the things the modern world requires. The mood of the people is such as I have said. I speak on behalf of people who have passed through terrible experiences during the last war, and who are hoping, and praying, that the Prime Minister, the President of the United States and Premier Stalin, those three people, will lead the world in bringing about the outlawing of war completely, and that we shall return to the ways of peace not on a temporary, but on a permanent, basis. I hope that when the   Prime Minister returns he will be able to report progress in the direction indicated. We have listened to statements from leaders on both sides of the House, but the number of speeches delivered, and the points of view expressed, in this Chamber must convince all that have authority and power that the common people are yearning for peace, and are prepared to sacrifice for peace, but if it means that we are just engaging in another mad race of armament, then they will feel that life is entirely in vain. I join with others in wishing the Prime Minister every success. We trust the lesson will rest upon him and that the people of America, Russia and Great Britain will make it abundantly clear to their leaders that we seek peace and not war, and that we want the fruits of science for the health of the nation, and the resources of the earth used in such a way that life will be a healthy and happy experience once again.
