gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I also crave the indulgence of the House in a maiden speech? I trust that I shall not trespass too much on its generosity during my few remarks. I would say immediately that I approach my task with an inherited respect and admiration for this House and its traditions. During my few remarks I want to lead up to a plea for mitigation of the Profits Tax on undistributed profits, with particular reference to its effect on working capital and liquid cash resources. I regard that part of the Profits Tax as being harmful to industrial wealth and productivity. If I approach this problem from the industrial rather than from the political angle, it is because I am more familiar with the former than with the latter. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his Budget speech, stated that it would be nonsense to say that industry was either weighed down or crushed down by the weight of taxation. That may be his view, but from my experience I would say that he would find it difficult to discover anyone engaged in the direction and management of industry who would not agree that industry is at least severely handicapped, and I think he would also find that the initiation of new projects is today becoming more attuned to the cash available than to the desirability of the projects themselves. When I referred to industrial wealth. I hope my meaning was quite clear to all hon. Members. Perhaps I may make it so by explaining that I am not referring in any way to personal wealth, to the personal possession of worldly goods, or the personal possession of money in any of its forms. Rather would I divide industrial wealth into two sides which, in agricultural terms, I might express as live and dead stock. On the livestock side I would claim that the brains and muscles of those employed in industry most definitely comprise wealth and capital and so, indeed, does their health, though in   later years that certainly tends to become what the accountant would call a wasting asset. But if we endeavour to preserve, maintain and improve the live stock of our industrial wealth, as we do by our National Health Services, it is surely logical that we should equally look after the dead stock, or the machinery, plant and buildings. In my approach to this problem I am guided by two principles. First, my interpretation of capital is that capital is an asset which can earn reward, and, in my submission, is entitled to it when usefully employed; and secondly, wealth is very much easier to destroy than it is to create. It must be acknowledged, I think, that all those items of industry which go to make up what I call the strict cost of production are up between two and four times. It follows that the amount of working capital required has to be proportionate to that, and I think it is very much to the credit of industry that it has been able to find that additional working capital without calling on outside help. Beyond those items in the strict cost of production, there is a great deal more which modern, up-to-date managements desire to carry out: modernisation—and industry must modernise if it is either to hold costs or to reduce them; there are extensions; and there is research in its widest sense. Cash to provide for these items can come only in one of two ways: it can either come from profits ploughed back into industry, or it can come from the issue of fresh capital—subject to the Capital Issues Committee being agreeable. I would suggest that any management which endeavoured to raise fresh capital, unless it was convinced that that money was to be expended in such a way that it would either reduce costs or increase production, or both, would be heading straight for disaster. Each new piece of plant that is installed in replacement today is not the exact replacement of the old plant. New plant being put in today is a better one, I hope and believe; and, as such, it costs more than that article which it replaces. So the replacement allowances which are based on the original cost of the piece of machinery being thrown out do not provide the funds for the newly installed article or piece of machinery. There is another thing to remember. Any newly erected factory is a very different building  from one built 50 or 60 years ago. No up-to-date and modern management would dream of erecting a new building unless they were going to provide canteens, rest rooms, individual lockers, medical services for light and serious injuries. That is not a dream. There are such factories which are known, I imagine, to many hon. Members. I hope there are many more than I know personally. The cash must come from profits ploughed back into the business. A great deal has been done in recent years, but industry has been enabled to do that out of profits ploughed back not in one year only but over a great many years, and when doing this modernisation it has been doing it out of reserves, which has usually meant the selling out of gilt-edged securities. Now industry, I should say, is illiquid, or very nearly so. There is a general shortage of capital for industrial purposes, especially internal sources of finance. The Chancellor may think that I have forgotten the initial allowances which he made last year. I do not wish in any way to discount the advantages of that doubling of the initial allowances on plant and machinery, but I think we should get it into proper perspective. That doubling of the initial allowances does not in any way alter the total amount of the depreciation on any article. It increases the first year's allowances at the cost of later years', and I think it is, therefore, not unfair to say that it is equivalent to a deferred tax liability. I refer to the initial allowances on plant and machinery. Those alterations were in respect of plant and machinery, and did not in any way help over buildings. Perhaps the Government committee which, I understand, is now considering the taxation of trading profits, may have something to say about that. As I said earlier that I considered that capital in all its forms is entitled to a fair reward when usefully employed, so logically it is entitled to any surplus over the fair reward. That, quite frankly, means profit sharing, of which I am in favour; but, in my view, it can come only on initiative from the top, and after confidence has been established between the two sides in a business through joint consultation machinery. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer wants a little encourage-   ment to alleviate this burden on industry, he is no doubt aware that the Finance Minister for India last March abolished the business profits tax, which, although not the same, does bear a certain resemblance to his Profits Tax. When considering profits and the difficulty of ploughing them back into industry, the Chancellor readily acknowledged that he takes not only 9s., and takes it first, but he also takes another 2s. at least and takes it first, namely, 55 per cent. of the taxable profits, whereas the 1938 percentage was only 33 per cent. Comparisons, though odious, may be interesting, and large corporations in America today are, I believe I am correct in saying, taxed at only 7s. 6d. in the pound and smaller corporations at a lesser rate. As the Revenue is now collecting tax on what appears to be a high profit resulting from the use of low-priced assets, some further tax allowance is due to industry to assure that capital equipment is maintained at a high standard. I think that industry may well say to the Chancellor today, after what it has done out of its fat and out of its reserves ploughed back during the last year: ""Give us a chance to bring ourselves up-to-date and to keep ourselves there."" For these reasons and in the interests of full employment, I ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider the abolition of the Profits Tax on undistributed profits.
