gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is always an ordeal for a new hon. Member to make a maiden speech, and I hope that right hon. and hon. Members will be tolerant with me. I represent the new constituency of West Bromwich, East which is directionally rather confusing, to say the least, and perhaps indicates that the Boundary Commission had a sense of humour. We felt that West Bromwich, North and South would sound rather more sensible, but I admit that that would also have created two safe Labour seats. However, impartiality prevailed and we worked doubly hard to ensure that this new West Bromwich constituency continued the town's long tradition of Labour representation. The people of my constituency earn their living mainly in industry in factories, foundries and rolling mills making components for motor cars and aircraft and a wide variety of engineering products. They are a special brand of men and women, forthright and honest, with a down-to-earth sense of humour. Although I am not a Black Country man, they have accepted me and my family with warmth and sincerity. They are my kind of people and it is an honour and a privilege to represent them in the House. The matter under discussion is an emotive subject. If there is one topic which will make hackles rise and tempers flare it is money, or the lack of it—or the extraction of it from the pockets of the ratepayers into the coffers of the local authority. Since my right hon. Friend's announcement regarding the rate support grant I have received two delegations and a considerable increase  in my post bag from irate ratepayers about the tremendously increased burden which they will be asked to bear in the new Sandwell metropolitan district. My constituents are facing increases in domestic rates of 89 per cent. and in industrial rates of 95 per cent. I deliberately mention industrial rates because one would think, judging from some of the comments of the Opposition—particularly from the Opposition Front Bench—that the only reason for this tremendous increase was the action of my right hon. Friend. We on the Government side know different. I have had to tell my constituents that they are over two years too late with their protests. The seeds of the increase and the forthcoming increases in other parts of the country were sown when the previous Government decided on a form of reorganisation totally against the recommendations of a Royal Commission. A more expensive strangulation of local democracy could not have been devised. The redistribution of services into the newly-created authorities has meant wasteful and unnecessary duplication,—which, coupled with the effects of inflation—for which the previous Government have a degree of guilt—have brought about the present horrific financial situation. The county precept in my constituency for 1974–75 represents an increase of 105 per cent. over the amount required in the current financial year for the services now transferred to the new county. The amount required by the regional water authority, a bureaucratic and undemocratic monster sprawling across the Midlands, has risen by 64 per cent. over the rate- and grant-borne expenditure of the constituent authorities in the current year. For my constituents, local government reorganisation will be a bitter financial experience, the responsibilty for which lies with the Conservative Party. The decision of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment to amend the previous Government's rate support grant proposals adds a further 6p in the pound to the domestic rate within my constituency. I accept, however, that given the limited time available only the variable domestic relief arrangement was susceptible to change. However, nationally, rate support grant amounts to about 54 per cent. of the relevant expenditure of local authorities. For the new Sandwell it will be only 44½ per cent. of district and county expenditure. The problems of the new Sandwell are many and varied, and in some cases unique. In accordance with the previous Government's requirements, the council has reduced its outlay locally-determined capital schemes by 20 per cent. and cut back its revenue expenditure by about £1·29 million. There are those who call for further cuts. We on the Government side, at least, know on whose backs those cuts in expenditure fall most heavily. The council has been asked by various people to cut its social services. In fact, it is expanding its social services, and I believe that it is right to do so. It will not cut back spending on the poor, the sick and the disabled, and it should not be asked to do so by this or any other Government. The county boroughs of West Bromwich and Warley, soon to be combined as the new Sandwell district, are not rich in rateable assets. Their financial problems alone make them worthy of special consideration. I ask my right hon. Friend to give them further assistance or substantial help in the near future under the Increase Order. For the future, I hope that the Government will consult individual authorities, particularly my own, to reduce the inequalities and anomalies that reorganisation has produced, for truly in my constituency local government reorganisation has been a financial disaster. I thank the House for its courtesy in listening to me.
