gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech in this important debate on the fundamental reform of British Telecom. Bolton, North-East is one of the three new constituencies that make up the metropolitan borough of Bolton. I am proud to have become one of the 41 Members who have represented Bolton over the past 150 years. The   House is already familar with the speaking skills of my hon. Friend the new Member for Bolton, West (Mr. Sackville). No introduction is needed for the hon. Member for Bolton, South-East (Mr. Young), whose former constituency now forms a large part of Bolton, North-East, and to whom I am indebted for his conscientious work in the past. I pay tribute to Mrs. Ann Taylor, the well-known former hon. Member for Bolton, West, a small part of which the Boundary Commission put into my new constituency, so providing a slippery toehold from which the former Member sought to oppose me at the general election. I learned that she had the fighting qualities of a lioness, which she had previously displayed on the Opposition Front Bench and which she used to become a popular and conscientious Member for nine years. I pay the greatest tribute to Sir Charles Fletcher-Cooke, the former Member for Darwen, a large part of which also makes up my new constituency. Sir Charles Fletcher-Cooke had a long and distinguished career in the House, covering 32 years, during which time he became highly respected by hon. Members on both sides of the House and known for his dedicated attention to all north-west matters. He was a junior Minister at the Home Office for a period, was knighted in 1981 and in his capacity as a leading silk has acted as legal adviser to the Sultan of Brunei. Opposition Members may be interested to know that he first stood for Parliament as the Labour candidate for Dorset, East, narrowly failing to be elected in 1945. His conversion to the Conservative cause was followed by my hon. Friend the Member for Brent, North (Dr. Boyson), the Minister for Social Security, who knows the Eagley Bank area of my constituency well, having made a classic study of one of the most famous historic enterprises in Bolton, the Ashworth copper mills. Bolton, the original growth of which was founded on the genius of Samuel Crompton, now has a diversified industry built up by the skills of its people. I am confident that the Government's economic policies will provide the framework for the continued growth of new jobs. We were particularly pleased and grateful to see my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister during her recent visit to Warburton's bakery, a leading private employer and founder member of Bolton Business Ventures Ltd., the enterprise agency formed to foster the growth of small businesses. The revived spirit of free enterprise is exemplified by the Telecommunications Bill, which provides the opportunity for that public sector service to become a commercially oriented world leader. I hope that its work force of nearly 250,000 people, ably led by Sir George Jefferson, will seize this new opportunity with imagination and vigour. I press my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry to begin by controlling the new business with what I would call a light regulatory rein, both to maximise the price at which the shares can be sold and to avoid stifling the constructive initiatives that will be needed to transform a public body into a profitable growth business. Perhaps we can tighten the reins later when we see how the spur of competition develops. In saying that, I should not want the new Director General of Telecommunications in any way to overlook the interests of both residential users and small businesses. It is proposed that prices should be controlled through a local tariff index based on a basket of prices to rise by no more than RPI minus x.  What my constituents would like to know is that their phone bills will not rise. Indeed, they will look in the basket for an extremely small unleavened loaf marked ""static standing charges"". As a small business man, vitally dependent on the telephone, I should declare a personal interest because, in addition to the Bill before the House, I have my own annual bill with BT, which is now well into six figures. I am sure that I speak for all small businesses when I say that I look forward keenly to the time when I can shop around for the various items in the basket. I add a plea that, for many new businesses in their formative years—it is small businesses to which we must look for most of the new jobs for Bolton's 16,500 unemployed— it is not only price that matters but terms of payment, as I am sure Mr. Speaker himself is well aware. The Director General of Telecommunications should ensure that the basket contains a loaf marked ""fair payment terms"", even if BT cannot see its way to supplying long thin loaves marked ""extended credit for new businesses"". I welcome the new Bill. Trusting that an injection of Mercury can cure most communicable ills, I believe that the new competitive freedom for BT will be to the advantage of the whole community.
