gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to ask the indulgence of the House in this my maiden speech. I have been fortunate enough to have heard a number of maiden speeches and it occurs to me that all of them have had one thing in common, the quite exceptional character of the hon. Members' constituencies. I should like to say at once that the Horsham constituency, which I have the honour to represent, is as exceptional as anybody else's, and probably a great deal more so. My constituency has known only two hon. Members during almost the whole course of this century. The first was Lord Winterton, who was a Member here for 46 years and who was Father of the House. I am sure that he will be remembered by many hon. Members with affection and esteem. I understand that during the war he formed an unusual partnership with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Easington (Mr. Shinwell). There were occasions, as it seemed to them, when the Government of that time were inclined to bypass the House in making their decisions. Between them, they objected strongly. They came to be known, I understand, as ""Arsenic and Old Lace"". I do not know under which term the right hon. Member for Easington would recognise himself now, but I scarcely think that it could be old lace. However, I am delighted to find the right  hon. Member for Easington still here, forming something of a link over so many years, and still clearly in such excellent form. My constituency is unusual too in that it has grown in the number of electors from 49,000 in 1951 to 86,000 today, mainly due to the increase in the number of electors of Crawley New Town. I pay special tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Gough. He deserved and won during the last 13 years, during which he served the constituency of Horsham, the admiration and affection of all his constituents, no matter which political party they may have supported. He will be remembered with esteem by many hon. Members on both sides of the House who will miss his presence here. My constituency combines in a unique way the problems of the old and the new. From Horsham, west to Harting, there lies the most beautiful stretch of country, all of it within 60 miles of London. From whatever point one may stand in this area one can observe the line of the South Downs. There are more spectacular peaks in England, sharper and more vivid contrasts in scenery, but for sheer harmony of woods, fields, hills and sky, I can think of no other view in England to touch it. Most of it, and rightly so, has been designated as an area of great natural beauty. Yet it is this same area which, if the Central Electricity Generating Board's proposals are carried through, will be bestraddled by gaunt and ugly monsters of pylons, each of them about the height of Nelson's column. I know that a maiden speech should be uncontroversial and I maintain that, from a party political point of view, that mine is, but I am quite impartial in my opposition to the Central Electricity Generating Board's proposals, no matter which party was responsible for carrying them out. In an effort to be constructive, I make this suggestion on this topic. In view of the need to restrict Government expenditure at this time of great economic difficulty, I suggest that the Government defer the decision to construct these pylons indefinitely. We can give the Government all the time they like, and part of the money saved in this direction could be spent on research into underground cables. I said that my constituency combines the problems of the old and the new in a unique manner, yet from the point of view of the Bill before the House the problems are not so very different. It is to be regretted that so little mention has been made in the Bill of savings. Many of my constituents in the rural areas depend on their savings for their livelihood. In Crawley New Town also, where there is a majority of young people, I hope that the Government will appreciate that the only effective way in which they can buy the necessities of life and set up home is by saving—and that they are unlikely to have been helped by the provisions of the Bill. Then there is the whole question of aid to industry. There are a number of new science-based industries in Crawley —electronics and high-vacuum techniques, to mention only two—and these need to attract fresh capital as a first priority. There is no doubt that the proposed corporation tax will make it more difficult for them to do so, to attract fresh capital, in the sense that it will be more difficult for the newer companies to pay out higher dividends and, ultimately, more difficult to increase the prospects of further employment in Crawley itself. In Horsham, the largest single employer of labour is a Swiss-owned company called C.I.B.A. I am sure that the Chancellor has weighed carefully the effect of his proposals on foreign investment in this country. Frankly, however, I cannot see how they can help the prospects of expansion and further employment in Horsham. Be that as it may, I am sure that the purpose of his proposals for a Corporation Tax and Capital Gains Tax is to help the First Secretary achieve an incomes policy. All hon. Members will wish him well in his task, but I hope that in arriving at such a policy he will not impair the ability of industry to attract the capital it needs. At present, we are in the dark. We do not know at what rate the Capital Gains Tax or the Corporation Tax is to be levied. Nor can we reasonably expect to do so until, as the Chancellor said, the Budget in April. But what we surely can expect to know is the machinery of this new taxation. We do not know whether pension funds will have to pay Corpora-  tion Tax or whether investment trusts and even trade union funds will have to pay taxation on income which is already taxed abroad. Until we know, professional investment for industry can no longer be professional but entirely speculative, just what the Prime Minister was telling us to avoid in his speech at the Guildhall. I have this morning received a letter from the Chancellor telling me that he is unable to reply to the questions I have asked concerning these taxation problems. I hope, therefore, that he will now make an early statement about these problems, preferably in the form of a White Paper, because at present no professional investment is possible in the City of London and, therefore, industry cannot attract proper investment. The sooner the Chancellor makes his proposals clear, the better. This is not a special plea, therefore, for the City itself, but for the efficient functioning of the economy. I do not now wish to discuss the effect of the Budget on the economy or, indeed, our present economic situation, but I want to make just one or two points about the basic position of sterling in relation to other currencies, and to world trade. It is a source of pride to us all that half the world's trade is financed by sterling, yet in this very position there lies a constant threat to the state of our economy, no matter which political party is in power, for, be our economy never so strong, the fact that foreign holders of sterling may, for whatever reason, prefer to finance their trade in another currency, can bring to bear an intolerable pressure on our resources and stultify our long-term plans for our economy. It is literally true that an economic sneeze at home can make us retire to our beds under doctor's orders. We already have a panel of doctors appointed by E.F.T.A. Basically, this is no fault of any political party, or of any domestic measures adopted. It is as though we were always going in to bat six men short on a difficult pitch and in a treacherous light. It is a position that, to say the least, inhibits free stroke play of the kind that the right hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friends wish to play. Nor will our position improve, even if the surcharge on imports should prove to be an unqualified success for we can only succeed in cutting down our imports at the expense of other   countries' exports, and there is no reason, in that case, why they should not adopt precisely the same measures to protect their own trading position. What we must seek to do is to expand the whole credit basis for world trade. In 1948, the world total of monetary reserves compared with the value of world trade was 46·8 per cent.; today, it is less than 25 per cent. We all hope that world trade will expand—indeed, our economy is dependent upon its expansion—but, unless something is done to swell the world's monetary reserves, the margin of error under which any country will work will become progressively finer and, because we transact so much of the world's trade with such a small proportion of its resources, the margin of error available to us will eventually become almost infinitesimal. Something must be done soon about this situation. Various proposals have been made over a number of years, and I do not wish to take up the time of the House in discussing them now. The latest initiative was in September, 1962, when my right hon. Friend the Member for Barnet (Mr. Maudling) put forward at the I.M.F conference a suggestion for a mutual currency account. That was not accepted at the time, but the initiative itself must at least have helped those in other countries to see the logic of the situation. I believe that we should now take a further initiative along the same lines. Should such an initiative be taken but not succeed, I believe that we should then try to form a more limited agreement between the sterling area and as many other European countries as we can get to join. We should start with the E.F.T.A. countries—to whom we now owe a great deal—and the other, Common Market, countries in forming a new European Reserve Bank, with a new unit of account based on sterling reserves and the reserves of other European countries as well. I foresee that if such a thing were to happen, this European Reserve Bank would be far more generous in its allocations and allowances than the International Monetary Fund now is, or even the World Bank. What is essential is that we should establish a larger credit base, not just for the sake of our own economy but for the sake of making  more funds available for the development of the poorer countries, upon whom the expansion of world trade ultimately depends. It is because of the importance of sterling in the world today that I feel that we should constantly take the lead in monetary diplomacy. It is because I believe that we should take this lead, which will do more than anything else to expand world trade, and thus improve the livelihood and the lot of millions of people in under-developed countries, that I am proud to be a Member of this House, and grateful for the indulgence that it has shown to me.
