gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave your indulgence, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, and that of the House, not only because I rise to address the House for the first time but also because I am following the right hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies), which is always a difficult task. I should say by way of introduction that I have the honour to represent the Conway division of Caernarvonshire. I believe that the hon. Member for Caernarvon (Mr. G. Roberts) is a constituent of mine, but I do not think he is a supporter. I was very pleased to hear him speak today. We have one thing in common despite our differences—we are   both concerned for the welfare of Wales. I think that can be said for the vast majority of the people in our respective constituencies. It is not only because of my views on the matter, but also because I represent a constituency which is in the heart of Wales that I was very pleased to hear my right hon. and learned Friend give in this House the assurance that the special problems and difficulties of Wales are well in the forefront of the thoughts of His Majesty's Government, and that my right hon. and learned Friend, as the advocate of Wales, will do his utmost to assist towards a solution of these problems and difficulties. There have been great changes in the social and economic structure of Wales over the last ten years. Many of those changes have been changes for the good. In all sincerity, I should like to acknowledge the efforts made and the results achieved since 1945. But in my view, in the past, one thing has been lacking, namely, a sufficient acknowledgment by Governments that Wales is a separate and distinct nation with an individuality and way of life which is in sharp contrast to that which obtains in England. This distinction has at last been recognised, and by the creation of a Minister for Welsh Affairs and an Under-Secretary of State specially charged with Welsh affairs, Wales can now be assured of constant representation at the highest level in all aspects of national policy. I believe that these steps which have been taken by His Majesty's Government will ensure that Welsh problems will be dealt with more speedily, more effectively, and what is more important, more sympathetically than has sometimes been the case in the past. Moreover, I am of opinion that this recognition of Wales forms the basis of the greatest advance in the political life of Wales for centuries. There are many people, both inside and outside this House, who believe that Wales should have a far greater control over the conduct of her affairs than she has at the moment. Time alone can show whether that belief is well founded or otherwise, but should experience show that further devolution is advisable the gate-way is now unlocked for the first time. The problems of Wales are many and varied, and my right hon. and learned Friend and the right hon. and learned Member for Montgomery and the hon. Member for Caernarvon have mentioned many of these problems. They have discussed them fairly and truly. There were two matters of interest to me on which I would like to comment. I was most pleased to hear today for the first time that the scheme, or the proposal, of the War Department to acquire land in the Lleyn Peninsula of Caernarvonshire has now been abandoned for the time being. I was also most pleased to hear that the Towy Valley afforestation scheme has also been abandoned. The proposal by the War Department to acquire this land in Lleyn is a matter which had caused much distress to the agricultural community and indeed the insatiable appetite of the War Department for Welsh land has been causing distress to Wales for some time. It is a matter which has a distinct local flavour, in as much as the conditions in these matters vary when they are in Wales. The point I would wish to make is that previously all the people who made protests against similar acquisition never had any feeling that their protests would receive consideration. The most for which they could hope was that there would be an inquiry by a tribunal appointed by the Minister concerned, with power only to refer back to him. It is a matter of comment that the decision of the Minister would very often be but the echo of his own departmental advisers, who would have no interest in or concern with the national character of Wales. It was, therefore, a great pleasure to me to learn in the Recess that my right hon. and learned Friend had gone to the Lleyn area and had met people in that district and examined the problem personally. For the first time the people concerned in these matters experienced a far greater feeling of security, for they knew that my right hon. and learned Friend was there as a member of the Cabinet, but not representing a Government Department; nor was he representing the interests of a Government Department, nor indeed the interests of a Government. He was there as a Cabinet Minister representing the interests of Wales. I had hoped to say a word about matters which affect my constituency. I   was grateful to the hon. Member for Caernarvon when he mentioned the Conway Bridge and he was able to put the problem far more effectively than I could have done. It is an urgent problem, and I would ask my right hon. and learned Friend to examine it. If he feels it is time for a new bridge to be built I ask him to advocate that on behalf of the people in North Wales. I urge my right hon. and learned Friend to consider two further matters. The first is that many of the problems of Wales are best dealt with by the people of Wales themselves and I would ask him to consider that local Government in Wales should be both local and government; that is, subject to the minimum of interference and dictation from Whitehall. Second, I would ask him carefully to consider the necessity for reconstituting the Council for Wales so that it can become a more effective and representative voice of feeling and opinion in Wales. As a start, I suggest they should meet more regularly and that their meetings should no longer be in secret. I believe that an effective link between this House and the Cabinet and the Council for Wales can now be forged. When that is done our national aspirations will in a large measure have been attained.
