gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am greatly obliged to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for this opportunity to catch your eye and to make my maiden speech. It is not for me, as a maiden speaker, to congratulate the hon. Lady the Member for Coventry, South-West (Mrs. Wise) on behalf of the House upon her own maiden speech, although I should like to congratulate her on the clarity of her exposition, and to say that I am inclined to agree with her views on economists, that I share her concern for owner-occupiers, but that I do not go far along the road that she has put before us this afternoon. I have the honour and responsibility to represent the new constituency of  Gosport. Gosport was previously represented as part of South Hampshire, and later it became part of the constituency of Gosport and Fareham. In the 1970 election, the constituents of Gosport and Fareham numbered more than 100,000. That constituency was split to form the separate constituencies of Gosport and Fareham. The previous Member for the joint constituencies of Gosport and Fareham is now my hon. Friend the Member for Fareham (Dr. Bennett). It is a tradition of the House that maiden speakers pay tribute to their predecessors in the constituency. It is for me to pay tribute not to any immortal shade but to the real and continuing presence of the hon. Member for Fareham. It takes a man of substance to be split in two and to produce two Conservative majorities of 7,000. I know that the people of Gosport would certainly wish me to thank the hon. Member for Fareham most heartily for all the work he has carried out on their behalf over the past 24 years and to wish him well in his constituency of Fareham. Traditionally, maiden speakers are allowed the indulgence of a description of their constituency, and that indulgence I should like to take. I was born in Gosport; it is my home town. Gosport consists of the municipal area of the district of Gosport. It includes Bridgemary, a council housing estate, and Rowner, a new housing estate of owner-occupied houses, as well as Lee-on-Solent, Alverstoke and the older established areas of Gosport. It is superbly situated, looking across Spithead towards the Isle of Wight and across Portsmouth Harbour to Portsmouth. There is a popular misconception prevalent in this country that Gosport is near Portsmouth. That is not strictly true. Any of my constituents will say that Portsmouth is near Gosport. Gosport and Portsmouth are traditional neighbours and friends who exchanged cannon balls during the Civil War, and I am delighted to say that on that occasion Gosport was on the side of Parliament. In a television programme recently it was said that Gosport is the Royal Navy and the Royal Navy is Gosport. We have in Gosport the Royal Naval Armaments Depot, Victualling Yard and Aircraft Yard. We have a submarine base at   HMS ""Dolphin"". We have various naval units at HMS ""Sultan"". At HMS ""Daedalus"" we have an air-sea rescue unit, and the Inter-services Hovercraft Unit. We have a Royal Naval Hospital at Haslar. We have the computer centre, the dental school, the physiological centre and many other naval units. Gosport is very much a Services town. There are many Service personnel stationed in Gosport. It is an attractive place to put down roots—or perhaps I should say to ""make fast ashore""—and it is a popular area for retirement. It is a well-known sailing area. There are three popular dinghy sailing clubs as well as a marina at Camper and Nicholson's world-famous boatyard. I understand that it is a tradition that maiden speakers sometimes seek to entice right hon. and hon. Member to visit their constituencies. I have no need to seek to entice right hon. and hon. Members to visit my constituency if they are interested in yachting and boating. Indeed, we cater for all classes of yachtsmen. Not everyone can be in the Admiral's Cup team, and we have a school for beginners in sailing. We have some light industry, most of which has been established since the war. We have about 3,500 people employed on television assembly at the Thorn Electrical Company factory at Bridgemary, and Cyanamid and Lederle have pharmaceutical companies there. I share with my constituents a great concern for defence. It is not only the people who serve in the Armed Forces who are concerned about defence in Gosport. We find that this concern is shared by the widows of Service men and, indeed, by retired Service people, because people who devote their lives to the Armed Services believe in what they are doing. They are dedicated. They believe that the years of peace that we have had since 1945 are not an excuse for reducing the Armed Services and our defence expenditure but that these years of peace are a tribute to the work carried out by the people in the Armed Services. I believe that the £50 million reduction in defence expenditure in the Budget, which is a reduction in expenditure on men and equipment, is in all the circumstances not unreasonable, but I promise  to pay healthy attention to the review of defence expenditure that is now suggested. This afternoon, so far, we have been talking mainly about golden eggs. I am sure that all hon. Members share the view that we should give great regard to the way in which money is spent, but I wish to look for a moment at the health of the goose. It simply is not good enough to give all our attention to the distribution of the budgetary amounts available. We must look at the health of the economy, and I am not entirely certain that enough attention has been paid to this. I take one specific area—North Sea oil development. I am not concerned now about the ownership and the taxation of the oil that comes out of the North Sea. I set that aside for the time being. There are three phases in the development of an oilfield. First, there is the exploration phase, when, of course, we need the expertise of foreign companies. Then there is the development phase, when the fields are actually developed. That is when the money and men are needed. Third, there is the production phase. Nothing very much happens or is seen to happen during the production phase. There are not very many job opportunities or investment opportunities. All that we are getting is a healthy return for our balance of payments. That, of course, is fine. But the main opportunities—the opportunities for investment, the opportunities for creating jobs arise during the second phase, the development phase of an oilfield. It is calculated that about half of all the industrial investment that will take place over the next few years will, in the broadest sense, take place in the development of offshore oil. There is a huge range of industrial opportunity for Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom. There is opportunity to participate in the construction and assembly of rigs; to sell pipe for oil pipelines; there is ""drilling mud""—indeed, expenditure on ""drilling mud"" constitutes 15 per cent. of the cost of drilling an oil well. There is opportunity for sales of concrete and all kinds of technical products and the development of all kinds of skills. The development of the North Sea oilfield will take place in the most appalling weather conditions. The water depth is about 400 to 600 feet, and the planners   have to cater for storms with 100 foot waves, 150 mile-an-hour winds, a water temperature of 4°C and air at freezing level—weather conditions which create the Scottish temperament. Any country whose industries can cope with this challenge can then go on and operate world-wide. What we have to do is to …develop a long-lasting oil-related industry which will be there when the companies have moved into other waters … and … we can do it only if it is an indigenous industry in which we own the new technology, techniques and expertise which is developed.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 20th March 1974; Vol. 870, c. 1220.] I am aware that traditionally a maiden speech should avoid controversy, and, therefore, the quotation I have just read is from a speech made last week by the Under-Secretary of State for Energy. I share that view completely. For too long, United Kingdom companies have held off from investment in this area. They have been afraid perhaps that demand would not be continued. That has been my experience with the British Steel Corporation. It is a tragedy and a scandal that the pipe used in the North Sea will predominately be Japanese and Dutch. If the Government can see a potential long-term benefit to our industry, they should give a lead. This is not a chance in a lifetime. It is a chance which the country has not had since the Industrial Revolution. It is a chance in two centuries. The British can be the Texans of the 1980s if they are capable of taking this opportunity. There are two kinds of company which might benefit from involvement in the North Sea project. The first is the smaller, perhaps United Kingdom-based, company which needs Government encouragement and incentive to involve itself in this work. The second type is the multinational company. I congratulate the hon. Member for Coventry, South-West on her remarks. I have experience of multinational companies and do not disagree with a great deal of what she said. The multinational company does not care which subsidiary company it puts its particular activities through. It is as happy operating through a company outside the United Kingdom as it is through a company within the United Kingdom, and it needs incentives in the same way  but for different reasons as United Kingdom companies. If multinational companies and United Kingdom companies can be encouraged to enter this area of activity, it will encourage industrial investment which the country needs, and it will create job opportunities. My concern is that in the Budget Statement there is no measure, not one word, that would help the Under-Secretary of State for Energy to encourage the industrial development we need. Indeed, industrial investment and development seem to have been discouraged. I hope that it can be accepted as non-controversial when I say that budgetary steps should be taken to stimulate the development of our own oil industry. Perhaps we may hope for these steps in the next Budget from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whoever he may be.
