gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech on this pensions Bill I had better start by declaring an interest since, as part of my business activities, I sell insurance. But it is not from that point of view that I want to look at the Bill. During the years that I have been meeting the general public, especially during the recent election campaign, I have been struck over and over again by the feeling prevalent among many of the elderly that they have been betrayed by the rest of society. I received a letter only last week in which a constituent said: To my mind, it appears that in this Welfare State of ours it is a crime to be old"". Therefore, in describing their feelings as those of betrayal, I do not think that I am being too extreme. In speaking out as I do, I know that my predecessor for the Wellingborough constituency, although he would have spoken from the benches opposite, never hesitated to speak up on behalf of his constituents and present their problems. When people drawing the basic national insurance pension see wage awards announced which give increases in wages far higher than the total amount on which they have to live, they know that they are being left further and further behind in the battle to maintain reasonable living standards, and they can hardly be blamed if they feel bitter. It is all very well to talk about the overall level of prices, but pensioners know that the essentials of life—milk, bread and coal, for example—have all gone up in price and will continue to go up by a far greater percentage than is reflected in the general rise in the cost of living. If we want to talk about a just society, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the scales have been tipped against the old. It is my opinion that we should now adjust the balance. I give the Secretary of State full credit for wanting to do something to end the   anomalies, and I applaud his motives, but I question whether this is the right way to do it. I suggest that it is not. In the first place, it does absolutely nothing for the many people over the age of 80 who have no pension, and it does nothing really for the many existing pensioners. In a Bill of this scale, it should have been possible to do something for both those categories. Simply tying future pensions to the rise in the cost of living ignores the special needs of the elderly and the fact that increases in the price of one or two basic commodities can completely disrupt their budget. What strikes me as being so unfair in We Bill is that the new pensions are to be paid for by our children and our grandchildren. These pensions are much higher than we of this generation are prepared to pay our elderly today. We should ask ourselves what right we have to commit posterity to a cost and a responsibility that we are not ourselves prepared to accept today. The second reason why I oppose the Bill in its present form is that it will mean heavier contributions from employers and from the greater part of the working population before too long at the present rate of inflation. Dress it up as we may, this will still be regarded as a further compulsory burden on the employers and a further compulsory deduction from the wage packet. Pensions should be seen by the contributor as a deferment of the enjoyment of earnings now in exchange for the benefit of an income in the years when one has ceased to work. Only in this light can they been seen as genuine savings. The trouble with the Government's Bill is that by many it will not be viewed as a method of saving for one's retirement, but as just another attempt to raise taxation. It is the psychological effect of introducing a Bill on this scale which will have so dampening an effect. Under almost all private pension schemes, the employer regards the expenditure as reasonable as an additional benefit given to the employee, and the employee, on his part, willingly gives up his contribution, sees it as a deliberate method of saving and does not immediately ask for a wage increase to cover the cost. The real danger of the Bill, therefore, as at present envisaged is that it will defeat many of its own declared objectives in that it will be grossly inflationary. This, in turn, can only drive up the level of contributions to cover the increases in benefits which have become necessary. Surely it is more advantageous to the economy as a whole to encourage more and more people to enter into private schemes and to relieve the State—that is, the taxpayers—from the financial responsibility of ensuring that the majority of our elderly are in receipt of adequate income. To achieve this, the minimum requirements of the private pension schemes, that is to say, the value of the pension, widows' rights, death benefits, should all be stipulated and laid down and approved by the Government. It is quite true that this would still leave many people who would not be able to go into private schemes, perhaps because of their age, perhaps because of the length of their employment, perhaps because they work for a small firm, but if it were possible to ensure full transferability many of these could be taken care of; and surely it would be much easier to deal with these people by adaptation of the present scheme and through supplementary benefits paid for by taxation. It would be equitable so to do, because people in the private schemes would be gaining the benefit of tax relief, not only on their own contributions but on those paid by their employers. It appears to me to be totally unnecessary to create a monolith which will become a major source of inflation in order to care for what could well be a minority of the population. Why should all the people who are at the moment in private schemes be forced to enter into the new Government scheme? I would suggest that by encouraging the major part of the working population to go into private schemes we shall be able to reduce the inflationary spiral which will result from introducing the Government scheme. The fundamental need of every retired person is security. No matter how well-intentioned, a scheme which has the effect of continually forcing up prices and continually contributing towards the erosion of savings cannot be regarded as fulfilling this need, and, therefore, the Bill   cannot possibly be seen as fulfilling the need to give security. Should the Bill ever become law one of the very real dangers will be that a vast amount of money will no longer be available for investment by the administrators of the private pension schemes. After all, their job is to invest wisely and profitably. Once again, it is a case of the Government professing to know better than the experts whose reputation depends on their own success. The Government themselves are deliberately planning on such a transfer of funds from 1972 onwards to expand their outlay on pensions, partly by diverting into the State scheme money which would otherwise go into private schemes. The effect of this will be that many people will say, ""There is no point in saving any longer: the State will provide"". I suggest that it is rather woolly minded of the Government to introduce a Bill of this nature at the same time as they are desperately trying to raise the level of private savings. It would only have the effect of turning savings into consumption, and this is something which, I should have thought, any Government would wish to avoid. Another weakness of the scheme is the adverse effect it will have on existing pension schemes. The scope of the Bill is such that most existing schemes will have to be considerably modified, and the timed implementation of the Bill can only mean much more confusion, bearing in mind how long it takes to alter a scheme and to get approval of the Inland Revenue. One of the most disturbing effects will be on small pension schemes. I have no hesitation in saying that many small private schemes will completely disappear. This is yet another oblique attack upon the small firms of this country. By and large it will be the large firms which will tend to continue their own private schemes. The small firms will find it more difficult, more complicated, and, therefore, they will have much more difficulty in recruiting suitable labour. There is very great danger in keeping adding to these attacks upon the small firms in our economy. To sum up, this Bill should not be regarded as an extension of the Welfare State, but rather as another step towards ensuring that only the State can be entrusted with welfare. This I believe to  be a most dangerous doctrine, because it strikes at the fundamental need for responsibility to be encouraged in each and every individual to contribute towards his own well-being by making a deliberate and conscious choice in deciding how he will allocate his earnings, how he will spend his earnings on present consumption and how he will save for the future. For these reasons I support the Amendment and I oppose the Bill.
