gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this, my first speech to the House, I should like to begin with a tribute to Sir Clive Bossom, who represented the Leominster constituency very well, not only in the House but as a very diligent and hardworking constituency Member from 1959 until one month ago.  I thank him not only for the way in which he greeted me when I arrived in the constituency but for the friendship that he bestowed upon me. In asking for the indulgence of the House, I gather that I should not be controversial. I make no such pledge, but if I am at all controversial my target is not hon. Members opposite but the measure itself. The many words spoken on both sides of the House show that an attack is rapidly developing on this order by hon. Members of both parties. I shall be controversial in terms of the measure itself. Many hon. Members on both sides of the House are affected by the order. I understand government to be the art of drawing the line, and it is sometimes an effort to get the line in the right place. However, this is about the clumsiest way of drawing the line that I, in my primitive and humble experience, have ever seen. The main theme of the right hon. Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) seemed to be one of apology. I wrote down what he said. He said that it was ""on balance right to make the change"". He said that it was ""rough justice"", and added, ""I would wish to have more thoroughly worked out my proposals."" He said, ""It is far from perfect."" He said also that there was to be a thorough review of the whole system. If there is to be such a review, one wonders why we could not have retained the system worked out by my party when in office and left any change until after the review. The Secretary of State ended by saying that of course there were anomalies. If the opening speech is on those lines, I quiver to think how the Secretary of State for Wales will conclude the debate. Coming from an intensely rural area, I want to point out that the effect of the order will not be confined to rural areas. The areas affected include not just places like Hereford and Worcester but also Stoke—which is represented by hon. Members on the Government benches—which will lose 6p, Portsmouth, which will lose 4·5p and Leicester, which will lose 4p. Leicester has already been mentioned in the context of education, but it has also one of the worst immigration problems. If this is not a clumsy way   of dealing with things I do not know what is. My constituency is rural—600 square miles, in which until recently there was not one traffic light. In perhaps their worst fit of progress, the last Government constructed the area's first traffic light, which will start operation in a month. The effect on us will be dire. There is a ""league table"" among the Hereford and Worcester MP's. Leominster, in my constituency, at one stroke will have a domestic relief cut imposed of 14·5p, Malvern Hills, an area whose representation I share with the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Bulmer) will lose 10p, Worcester, which is represented by the right hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Walker) will lose 8p and will face a rate rise of 87 per cent., South Herefordshire, represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Hereford (Mr. Gibson-Watt) who is in his place, will lose 16p, and as such is top of our local ""league table"". The area of Redditch and Bromsgrove, represented by the hon. Member for Bromsgrove and Redditch (Mr. Miller) who is sitting behind me, as is the hon. Member for Kidderminster, is near Birmingham. This area and Kidderminster are invited to take people from Birmingham under the county development plan, to give them homes and to provide them with services, and then they are expected to pour money into the areas from which they take these people. I obviously have to justify my claim that the order is bad and anomalous. Coming from an area on the border of Wales, I am particularly glad that my right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State for Wales will be concluding the debate. As he knows, on the proposal of the last Government, agreed in principle by his right hon. Friend the Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. Thomas) when in office, a water authority for Wales was implemented in such a way that we in Hereford were drawn in. One reason for our domestic relief was to counteract the immense increase in the water rate. Now, our relief is driven down to 13p, the standard norm, whereas throughout the borders of Wales, many parts of which are prosperous—I say this as someone who was born in Wales, although I represent an English constituency—where many areas have the same problems that  we have, there will be rate support of 33·5p. As if that were not enough, across the border, Montgomeryshire, our neighbouring county, has the inestimable advantage of belonging to the Severn-Trent Water Authority, which is much less expensive—its water rate is only 3·6p, whereas ours, under the Welsh Water Authority, is 13·8p. Also, in Montgomeryshire, rate support of 33·5p is still to be given. If the Secretary of State intends to contend that that is fair, he is even a more skilful advocate than I have known him to be. It is our aim in areas like mine to develop; we have a small population. My electorate is only about 43,000. We are adjacent to Wales, which gets all the benefits of being a development area. We were succeeding. There will soon be a small and thriving industrial estate in Leominster. Kington, sitting on the Welsh border, is desperate for industry and commerce. If once we get depopulation and our young people leave, our area could become some sort of ""geriatric ward"", with a large influx of retired people. I say that in the full knowledge that those coming in would tend to vote my way. We ask the Government to deal with depopulation more rationally. I should like to say a word for the dear old middle class. I represent an area which has a large number of retired people who have saved throughout their lives and perhaps have a pension of £1,000 or £2,000 a year. They have been hit silly by inflation. They are particularly defenceless and a word should be said about them from this side. This leads to something perhaps more serious. Here I want to break out of talking about constituency problems. Many sensible words have been said by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, North-East (Mrs. Short) about what is happening in the country over the rating system. The Government are contributing to a lack of faith in a system which is no good anyway. The rural areas are already losing faith. I shall not move off the subject by talking about agriculture, but perhaps I could say that what has happened in recent months has not helped. That is not a party point; if   anything, it is a criticism of my own party. Someone going through areas like mine might think how prosperous they were—""Gorgeous Tory countryside"". Herefordshire, however, has the lowest employment income in the West Midlands, and the average income is below that of Wales. Over 3,000 of these attractive houses do not have baths and 3,437 have no inside lavatory. It is people like this whom the order will harm. Rate-financed services in rural areas are nothing compared with those in towns. I compliment my right hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) on her speech, since she dealt with the question of services and I do not want to repeat this. There is a particular problem in rural areas and a considerable need for money to extend services. I wish to emphasise the need to improve transport facilities. The situation has been complicated by the increased price of petrol in a situation of deterioration in bus services. Discussions are now taking place in the new authorities to find ways of improving transport facilities, and we all know that their task will not be easy. I suppose it can be truly said that we have had something of a reorganisation trauma. Local authorities have gone in for extra expenditure and balances have been run down by constituent authorities, which last year held down the rates. In other words, balances have been spent in trying to keep the situation in control. Many authorities have gone in with flags flying and have no money left in the new kitty. We in the rural areas are suffering and no doubt many others are, too. The worst effects are being felt by the ordinary people in my constituency who are losing sympathy with the rating system. It is an unjust system, and I accept the share of the responsibility of right hon. and hon. Members on my side of the House. Any system which can virtually double the rates and increase the burden on small businesses—among small shopkeepers and small firms—must be wrong. I do not put the blame on my right hon. Friends; I am merely emphasising that any system that produces such a result must be wrong. Any new system will bristle with difficulties, since it will involve site value taxes, local taxa-  tion and all the rest of it. In the long term, if there is a will there must be a way. But in the short term, it would appear that we have to live with this system because successive Governments have not had the will to abandon it. This applies to my hon. Friends on the Conservative benches as well as to hon. Members on the Labour benches. But if we must live with the system, we must make it as dignified as possible. I am sure that all hon. Members, in whatever part of the House they sit, will agree with that view. The worst feature of this proposal is that the hon. Members are placed in an impossible situation by this proposal. We all know that many Labour Members—""good Socialists"" we have heard it said—will go through the Lobbies in support of Labour's proposals. Indeed, many Conservative Members will abstain because they come from the large cities, and it is more than their political life is worth to do otherwise. This is not a question of overthrowing Governments; it is a question for hon. Members to consider for themselves. I regard this order as a shoddy piece of legislation. Therefore, we should be brave enough—this would be a worthy thing for the House to do—to vote against the order.
