gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with great diffidence that I make my maiden speech in a debate of such seriousness, and one that has so suddenly arisen. I do so, Mr. Speaker, because I feel so immensely concerned that we should be able to obtain the right solution in Cyprus. I shall, to the best of my ability, seek to be impartial and uncontroversial, but if I should stray from that path I do not expect the House to give me any indulgence or any protection. There may well be a great misunderstanding about the statement made to the House today by my right hon. and learned Friend the Foreign Secretary. I have looked at it most carefully, and I find that if one analyses it three things emerge. The first is that we stand today, as we have always stood, on the desire to obtain an agreement in line with the London and Zurich Agreements. Thai is what we have always asked for and it is our position at this very moment. Secondly, how can it possibly be suggested, as it was suggested this afternoon, that the Government's position in these negotiations has been rigid? The  illustrations given by both the Foreign Secretary and by my right hon. Friend the Minister of Defence are ample proof that we have bent over backwards to try to reach an agreement that would be parallel with the agreements of London and Zurich. When one learns that the population in the suggested areas has decreased from 16,000 to about 1,000, I do not see how anyone can talk of rigidity. How could there ever be any suggestion of rigidity in face of the fact that, only in the last few days, we have heard that there has been an increase to £10 million, at £2 million per year, in the grant suggested over a period of five years? Surely this could be regarded by no hon. Member as evidence of a rigid approach. It seems to me that no evidence can be drawn from the statement made by the Foreign Secretary to show that our position has got out of hand. We stand by what we have always stood by in our approach to agreement in Cyprus. I wish specifically to deal with the problem of negotiation. All right hon. and hon. Members must surely agree that, in any form of negotiation, there is some basic and absolute principle from which one cannot retreat. In all the efforts which we have made, there must be in the negotiations something from which we cannot retreat. I, am concerned—I say this understanding well all I might be implying—lest this debate should do harm in that respect, by which I mean, lest it should be taken by the people of Cyprus as ground for believing that this House of Commons is willing to see further retreat and further breakdown in our position as it stands precisely now in the negotiations. I hope that the speech made by the hon. Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey) does not mean that he is suggesting that we should give way yet again. If that is his suggestion—I hope very much that it is not—I believe that it would do a great disservice not only in our negotiations in Cyprus but in any future negotiations we may have in any place in the world. Any attack which is made on the position of the Foreign Secretary this evening must be an encouragement to Archbishop Makarios to be more intransigent, or, perhaps, not to the Archbishop himself but to some of his most radical and reactionary supporters. None of us can possibly desire that. There is one other aspect which has not been mentioned so far in the debate, namely, the fact that Cyprus itself is the only base from which we as a nation could give any aid to Turkey. We must be quite definite in realising fully that that is part of our responsibility both in N.A.T.O. and in our world treaties. It seems to me that that form of defence cannot be done away with or ignored. The position as regards sovereignty was agreed at the London and Zurich Conferences. Surely no hon. Member will suggest that it was not agreed by the Turkish and Greek communities and by the Turkish and Greek Governments. Since it was once agreed by all, can any hon. Member suggest that it is now in disagreement? No one can doubt what, in fact, happened. I feel that we must be definite. We cannot, indeed afford to back down from the position we have taken up on sovereignty. Here, again, I find support for the argument I have been trying to advance, that when one reaches a position of finality it is no more than utter weakness to withdraw from it. I have not spoken at all of my constituency of Reading or of the constituents I represent as, I realise only too well, it is traditional that I should do in a maiden speech. I believe, however, that there are times in this House when matters of greater importance even than one's constituents are discussed, and there are times when people must speak for what ought to be the British attitude throughout the world. I hope that in what I have said this evening I have done a little to that end.
