gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very pleased to be here today but I regret the cause of the by-election which brought me here. The late John Strachey was the longest-serving Member Dundee has ever had. He was very highly respected not only there but throughout the world. However—to get to the White Paper which, I may say, concerns my constituency very much—I am very pleased that the Government have at long last recognised the need for planning. It is a little unfortunate, however, that as they have rather belatedly come to this point of view, it is inevitable that they make rather a bad job of it. This plan is definitely a bad plan. The trouble with the country as a whole is that industry is concentrated very largely in the London area and the Midlands. All that the plan seeks to do for Scotland is to reproduce a pocket edition of that situation in Central Scotland. It aims to create a smaller edition of a big thing and will not help the country at all. The plan required will produce not so much growth areas but growth industries in areas of high unemployment. I recall a message from the Prime Minister to my opponent in the by-election which said: We will strive to attract more industries to Dundee. As Dundee is not one of the growth areas but was formerly a development area, I should like to know whether, when industrialists are looking for sites in Scotland, Dundee will be on the list, or whether they will go to growth areas only. If it is to comprise only the growth areas I feel that Dundee should be designated as a growth area. My reason for saying this is that Dundee has consistently had high unemployment over a long period of years. The Prime: Minister said that: … we intend to ensure that the long association of jute with Dundee is maintained by an efficient and viable industry. The dictionary describes a ""viable"" industry as a self-supporting industry without outside help or protection. This is exactly what the jute industry cannot be, unless it shrinks to less than one-third of its present size. If this is what the Prime Minister means, Dundee will be very much in need of new industry, and particularly growth industry. The Prime Minister went on to say something which is repeated in the White Paper. He said: The Tay Road Bridge, on which work has now started, will be of great importance to Dundee. It will provide a direct route to the South.… Surely the Prime Minister has not read about what his own Government are doing in another Department. If hon. Members will look at the sum of over £100 million which is to be spent on new roads they will find that there is no connecting road between the Tay Road Bridge and the Forth Road Bridge. When this was drawn to the attention of St. Andrew's House we were told that there was no intention of making this anything more than a communication between Dundee and a small area of Fife. If hon. Members look at the subsidies which the Government gave towards the Forth Road Bridge and they realise that they gave nothing but permission for the Tay Road Bridge, it will be seen that this is the policy and that the Prime Minister is out of step, as of course is also the White Paper. The next mention made of Dundee is in connection with an airport, which is something for which Dundee has been asking for a long time. All the Government can say about it is that Dundee's need for regular air communication with the industrial and commercial centres in the South is, along with other airfield requirements for the area, now being urgently considered. If the Government had any intention of providing Dundee with an airport it ought to have been mentioned in the White Paper, because the White Paper is supposed to be the plan for developing Scotland. The White Paper says that Dundee is becoming increasingly a part of the central industrial belt of Scotland, but as far as growth areas are concerned Dundee is left out in the cold. It is also left out in the cold where airports are concerned. It seems to me that all this was just a bit of election whitewash to try to persuade people to support the candidate and that the Government have no intention of doing these things. If they have the intention, all this should have been in the White Paper. I am convinced that the people of Dundee, as was shown by the votes in the by-election, have no faith whatsoever in the Government's vague promises, vague statements and vague inducements. The people have no faith that the Government have any intention of helping Dundee. The only hope for the future of Dundee, for the jute industry, the airport, and the connecting road between the Tay and Forth Bridges, is the speedy return of a Labour Government.
