gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye and make my first speech to the House. I echo other new hon. Members in saying how much I appreciate the courtesy of you and Mr. Speaker, and through you I express thanks to the officers and staff of the House, who have been unfailingly helpful. During my first week I was never able to walk abstractedly past a policeman twice in any five minutes without his asking me in a kindly tone whether I needed any help in finding my way. My constituency was ably represented by Dr. Reginald Bennett for the past 29 years. For all but five of those years he sat for Gosport as well as Fareham, until in 1974 that borough declared UDI. Over the years he accumulated great experience, and it is very fitting that he should now have two successors in the House rather than the usual one. Dr. Bennett was, and I am glad to say still is, a shrewd, affable and amusing character. He was a great asset to the many committees on which he served with distinction, particularly those developing closer ties with Parliaments in other countries in Western Europe. I was delighted, but not in the least surprised, to find how many friends he had here. I can well understand why the House invited him to take on the chairmanship of its Catering Sub-Committee of the Services Committee. I can also see that he succeeded in giving the House the diet it needed. I find that my hon. Friends are invariably alert and vigorous, whilst Opposition hon. Members give frequent and reassuring proof of the rude health in which he left them. Listening to other maiden speakers and hearing of the merits of their constituencies, I have felt like saying ""Snap"" to most of them, for Fareham contains in a small space a remarkable breadth of interest, activity and enterprise. It stands on the Solent coast of South Hampshire, astride the new M27, connecting the villages of Portsmouth and Southampton, which nestle modestly on its eastern and western fringes. The constituency boasts the best unspoilt seventeenth century and eighteenth century High Street in Southern England and a brand new climate-controlled shopping centre, which attracts customers from farther and farther afield, and particularly from those two villages that I mentioned. It ranges from farming through a flourishing horticulture to the  most rapid residential and commercial development in the region in its western wards, whilst along the Hamble river there is a network of highly skilled small boat-builders and their allied trades. However, Fareham is also the home of advanced technology in a host of small, specialised, science-based businesses and a giant Plessey factory and laboratory complex. It has the strongest connectaion with the Armed Services, particularly the Navy, and not merely because so many Service families have chosen to make their homes there. It has HMS ""Collingwood"", the Navy's largest training school specialising in all branches of electronics. It has the headquarters of Vosper Thornycroft, the highly successful warship designers and builders, who were roughly, unwillingly and unwisely bundled into the loss-making part of British Shipbuilders back in 1977. It also boasts a school of navigation, which has done and is doing so much to improve the skill and safety of our Merchant Navy and the merchant navies of other countries. The Budget changes proposed by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer are a bold and justified gamble on the capacity, energy and initiative of the British people. My constituents will be impressed, as they do not include many members of the executive of the National Union of Mine-workers, by my right hon. and learned Friend's determination to put so many of his election pledges so rapidly into practice. Although what many of those in business want is a period of stability and consistency, they will, I am certain, regard the undoubted dislocation of the VAT increase to be a price well worth paying for the decisive shift from direct taxation. I congratulate my right hon. and learned Friend on resisting the pressures he undoubtedly met to extend differential rates of VAT. The small-boat industry in my constituency, which has an excellent export record, suffered grievously when the Labour Government imposed a 25 per cent. rate on the grounds that boats are a rich man's luxury. One man's luxury provides another man's livelihood, and Governments merely create distortions, inefficiency and unemployment when they seek to make such distinctions. As a result of this Budget, the small boat producers in my constituency can   now compete on an equal level with other manufacturers, but I hope that my right hon. and learned Friend will turn an equally sceptical eye on the many other anomalies which still exist. There will also be a welcome in my constituency for the Chancellor's more realistic rate of development land tax which replaces the projected level under which only the quixotic, innumerate or desperate would bring land to the market. In Fareham, a great deal of new development is under way, making heavy demands on the borough council for community halls, open spaces and playing fields. I know that one of the many impressive qualities of senior Treasury officials is an ability to argue with total conviction why the proceeds of any tax should invariably and inevitably find their way to the Treasury. I hope that the Chancellor will nevertheless insist that a useful proportion at least of the development land tax will go to the local authorities concerned to help them defray the heavy expense of providing necessary social infrastructure. As I have said, I have many Service families in my constituency. Although it is a digression from the Budget debate, I would like to point out that there was much satisfaction when my hon. and learned Friend the Minister of State, Home Office declared the Government's willingness to meet objections to the present arrangements for the electoral registration of Service men's wives. The existing system has been much resented, and has meant that many Service wives both in my constituency and in many others did not vote in the last election. So I shall have much pleasure in checking at intervals with my hon. and learned Friend about how the necessary legislation is coming along. Needless to say, the promptness with which the Government carried out their election pledge to give the full pay award recommended for the Services has been greatly appreciated. It is still too early to say how beneficial its effects will be on the manpower and skill resources of the Armed Forces. But pay is never the only reason for uncertain morale, poor recruiting and early retirement. It cannot be stressed too strongly that Service men need to feel not only that they are filling a crucial role but have the training,  weapons and support to fill it effectively. I have had many young soldiers and sailors complaining to me about their vehicles and equipment, which have deteriorated so alarmingly in the last few years, before they have even considered mentioning their own pay. Unless resources are devoted to equipping our forces with the quality of weapons that we manufacture for foreign Governments, the extra amount spent on pay will be rendered futile. I hope that the Chancellor, who has increased defence spending this year, will be finding further resources in future years to make up for the appalling neglect of the past. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and, through you, the House for the attention paid to me.
