gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Forgive me, Mr. Deputy Speaker, if I stumble over the proprieties peculiar to the House, but I am the newest Member and a comparatively naive one—naive enough to believe that I can replace the late Eric Heffer in Parliament. As everyone knows, Eric Heffer was a Member who was loved and respected by many hon. Members on both sides of the House and by many far beyond this place. Who could fail to be moved by the tremendous battle that he put up against his terrible illness? Yet the people of Liverpool, Walton have sent me here to represent them in this place. I know that, conventionally, one is expected to be non-controversial in one's maiden speech. The paradox is that my constituents have been subject to great controversy during the past 12 years. They have been squeezed between two conflicting yet symbiotic tendencies. On the one hand, they have suffered from that sterile ideological throwback—the Militant Tendency. That malignancy has been cast to its political doom from the tarpeian rock of the Walton by-election. More insidiously detrimental to their well-being has been that other confrontational and mendacious tendency within Government, promising all and delivering nothing. The Government will shortly be called to account at the ballot box. The electors of Liverpool, Walton have already given their verdict, with the Tories' worst by-election result since 1980. It has been a judgment on the Government's declared ""managed decline"" of a great city. There is no doubt that the Government's perverse economic policies have effected their objective of running down the city of Liverpool and its citizens. Nearly 27 years ago, Eric Heffer made his maiden speech. In it he highlighted, after 13 years of Conservative government, the areas of neglect that particularly concerned him. It was with a sense of déjà vu that I read through them in that speech. Then unemployment on Merseyside as a whole was 24,000; now it is 7,403 in the division of Walton alone, notwithstanding the fiddled figures. The independent assessment of the unemployment unit shows a far worse situation, with one in three people unemployed in some wards in Walton and a total of 11,027 people unemployed, nearly 27 per cent. Eric underlined the population drift as jobs went. He spoke of 42,000 people lost to the north-west. Under the Government, we have lost 335,000 manufacturing jobs in the north-west—35 per cent. of the total. Many of those were in Liverpool as jobs were lost at Tate and Lyle, Standard Triumph, Dunlop, Hartley and many other firms —thus, the population drift has quickened to a flood. Other concerns of Eric's included the lack of skills training, the neglect of the transport infrastructure and the uncertain regional policy. Yet what do we have today? The Government have frozen the upgrading of the main north-west railway line. That line was planned as our high-speed link to the channel tunnel, but now there is no track, no rolling stock and no engines or any terminals appropriate to it. There have been massive cuts in regional aid in the north-west—down by more than 70 per cent. —which is the biggest single cut of any region. There has been a chaotic approach to training which leaves my city and many others bereft of the skills needed to compete in the modern world. Instead, we have been assured that prosperity will come to all, even Liverpool, on the basis of the trickle-down theory. It is what the novelist Joseph Heffer characterised as the Milo Minderbender school of economics: what is good for Milo is good for the country. That is not the case. There has been no trickle down to the people of Liverpool. Life has grown steadily worse under the Conservative Government. We have a council that is making painful decisions in order to stay within the law; we have a vibrant voluntary sector which struggles to relieve the worst effects of Government-inspired deprivation; and we have supportive private businesses, loyal to the city which demand more constructive recognition of their contribution to the city's regeneration. In short, we have a city of many talents battling against the odds to be part of the economic mainstream of life. Liverpool deserves the motto of Everton football club, ""Nihil satis nisi optimum""—nothing but the best is good enough. Of course, the people of Liverpool realise that we have little hope of that under a Conservative Government. Hence we have a paltry two Conservative councillors out of 99 in the city and no Tory Member of Parliament. It is well understood that our economic revival will come only with a Labour Government. Having sacrificed too many aspirations on the altar of political and economic dogmatism, will this Government not now relent in the remaining months which they have left and expiate some of their sins? What does it profit a party if, having won government, it suffers the loss of its own soul? Let me tell of what has happened to my constituents. One of my closest friends in Walton, after nine years on the dole, at 39 years of age, married with three children, finds that he cannot afford to take up the university place he has won through hard struggle. He would be worse off by between £9 and £12 a week. Where is the incentive there?  Another constituent, at 27 years of age, married with two children, has applied for 524 jobs without success. He approached me during the by-election with the words, ""I'm sorry to bother you, I'm just one of the unemployed"". Imagine the low self-esteem implied in those words. He has had his pride crushed out of him. That is what the  Government have achieved—a generation without jobs, prospects or even hope. Is it any wonder that my people treat their promises with derision?  When Oscar Wilde cynically defined democracy as bludgeoning of the people by the people for the people"", he may have had Liverpool in mind. We have certainly been well and truly economically bludgeoned by Government policy. We prefer to see democracy in a purer light— noble in motive and far reaching in purpose"".  We then ask ourselves, where is the nobility and purpose in record unemployment, stagnant production, social deprivation and human misery, attributable to 12 years of Government mismanagement? This Government will not be forgiven, but will be remembered in Keynes' words as the slaves of some defunct economist. Madmen in authority who hear voices in the air and are distilling their frenzy from some academic scribbler of a few years back"".
