gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It has been said more than once during the past week by hon. and right hon. Members that the House might be seen to be a microcosm of the community which we are trying to build. May I relate the experience of new Members that in one important respect the House is already such a microcosm. The qualities of kindness and humanity which we hope will characterise that community, as well as energy and keenness for production, are already much in evidence in the House. I can only venture to hope that the indulgence which has been shown to me since I came here will be extended for the next few moments. I am privileged to succeed a well known and well loved Member of the House and a great lover of the Commonwealth, Arthur Henderson. He represented the constituency of Rowley Regis and Tipton since it was formed 15 years ago and a considerable proportion of the electors for 16 years before that. I cannot hope to emulate his learning and experience. I can only hope that one day I may attain to his kindness and commonsense. I feel that it was possibly a tribute to him that, when he retired, the electors chose as his successor a member of the same profession. I have already discovered that it is a profession which the House sometimes views with mixed feelings, and no doubt there are occasions when that view is well deserved. I venture to hope that there may be other occasions when the training and experience entailed in that profession may  make a helpful if rather prosaic contribution to the deliberations of the House. I rose today largely on an impulse, for two reasons. The first was that in the matter of a maiden speech, not unnaturally, I sought the advice of more experienced hon. Members. That advice was more than generous and unstinting. Unfortunately, it was less than consistent, and I decided that unless I grasped the nettle at once I might be facing some form of schizophrenia over the next few weeks. The other reason, which is a more serious one, has placed me in a difficulty. My constituency is situated in the industrial Black Country. Its beauty is evidenced less in its landscape than in the character of its people. What is not immediately apparent is the direct interest which they might have in the subject matter of the debate. I was fortified because one of their chief characteristics, as they will tell you, is their forthrightness and outspokenness. If they were told that there are 15 men in prison who may be there—I deliberately say no more—because their offence was that they expressed views which did not commend themselves to their Government, they might be tempted to comment that to do that on occasion was perhaps one of the functions for which they elected their Member of Parliament. There are many of us on this side—and no doubt the feeling is shared in some measure by hon. Members opposite—who feel a real anxiety about the matter. The 15 men who are at present detained have had no charges formulated against them, much less investigated, and they are in a position to appeal to no one for protection but to Her Majesty's Government. Our fears would be very much alleviated if we could have some assurance that in the not too distant future there might be the prospect of an international authority to whom members of the public could appeal in such cases. It is more than 17 years since the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It was then hoped that it would immediately be followed by measures of implementation. There   have been no measures of implementation. There is no one to whom those who complain of a breach of its provisions can appeal, and there is no procedure prescribed by way of redress. That these things are possible has been evidenced by the activities of the European Commission on Human Rights, and more recently by the European Court, and if we could feel that either in the United Nations or in the Commonwealth some provision of this kind might be forthcoming in the fairly near future, many of us on this side of the House, quite irrespective of the political merits of the dispute in Guiana, might feel very much less anxiety. I hope that when that machinery is implemented some rôle might be found for organisations of a non-Governmental nature. Already there is provision within the United Nations for non-Governmental organisations to take part in a consultative capacity, and I have been privileged to attend as a spokesman for the organisation which has been mentioned by my hon. Friends the Members for Putney (Mr. Hugh Jenkins) and Birmingham, Aston (Mr. Julius Silverman) this morning, Amnesty International. I was impressed, as I have been in this House, by the courtesy and patience shown to a new boy, but it is possible that a more positive rôle might be found in the future for organisations of this kind, possibly the rôle of presenting petitions and of acting as a mediator between international organisations and those who complain of breaches of the Universal Declaration. I hope that it will not be considered highly controversial if I say that there may be a case for examining whether the people of the world can be represented in international discussions only by their Governments. The House has shown great concern for the protection of the rôle of back benchers. The non-Governmental organisations are the back benchers of international relations. I hope that I might be permitted to say one other thing without being accused of being controversial. I fully understand, and sympathise with, some of the views expressed by the hon. Member for Surbiton (Mr. Fisher). The history of the detentions in British Guiana is not simple. What is concerning a number of us is that the detainees  are detained under regulations which, in the first instance, were emergency regulations, and throughout the world there are thousands of people who are at present detained under regulations which at one time may have been justified by an emergency. The difficulty which one always encounters is to persuade a Government that the emergency which may once have justified their assuming unusual powers has terminated. This House has always shown a vital concern for the right to speak out and to associate with whom one will. There are some of us who believe quite sincerely that in this issue that right is at stake.
