gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, I thank you for this opportunity to make my maiden speech. My predecessor here was Sydney Irving, who represented Dartford for 15 years. He was highly regarded by all sections of the community in Dartford as an assiduous and dedicated constituency Member, and during the five years that I nursed that seat as prospective candidate, although we were political opponents, has was always unfailingly friendly and courteous, and I am grateful to him for that. Since I came to the House it has been obvious to me, from the remarks made by hon. Members on both sides of the House, and by members of the staff, that he was held in  the highest esteem at Westminster, both as Deputy Speaker and as a Member, and so it is no empty convention by which I pay a tribute to Sydney Irving. I do it with great pleasure. It is now my honour and privilege to represent Dartford in this House. Dartford is an ancient town in the ancient Kingdom of Kent. It was the home of Wat Tyler, that implacable opponent of the selective employment tax of 1381. It is the birthplace of British paper making, and it is still today an important centre of paper making, as well as engineering, pharmaceuticals and cement manufacture. It has a large rural area in which horticulture and agriculture are important activities and in which, despite its closeness to London, there is still some fine unspoiled country. Most people think of Dartford in connection with the tunnel that bears its name, and I shall be pressing for an early start to the second Dartford Tunnel. Like all constituencies, Dartford has its problems and perhaps, inevitably, with an area that is both industrial and rural, and a dormiory area, there is a conflict betwen the needs of the community and the preservation of the environment. The constituency is crossed by three trunk roads with an unenviable accident record. One length of road is known as the ""bloody mile"", and another as ""death hill"". There are in the rural areas about 600 acres of gravel pits and other mineral workings; all necessary to provide resources for the community, but posing problems in the preservation of landscape. The cement works provide vital raw materials for the building industry, but they also present the problem of cement dust fall out, despite strenuous efforts in the past to cope with it. But perhaps the most worrying problem for the Dartford constituency in the future is the rundown of heavy industry on Thamesside. I welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate on regional employment policy, and I note with approval the reference in the Gracious Speech to the need for effective regional development policies because I fully support all measures which bring jobs to the less favoured areas of Britain. I welcome the assurance by my right hon. Friend that the development areas and the intermediate areas will be preserved,   because I should not like to see any downgrading of priority for areas in need of help, but I am a little hesitant about the wisdom of too rigid and too doctrinaire a definition of those areas. I say that because where there is an area there is a boundary, and where there is a boundary there are anomalies. I hope that our development policy will be applied flexibly, particularly at the boundaries where these anomalies occur. Perhaps the chief victim of too doctrinaire a definition of areas is, paradoxically enough, the prosperous part of Britain, the South-East, because there are in the South-East pockets which have special local problems. My hon. Friends the Members for the Isle of Thanet (Mr. Rees-Davies) and Canterbury (Mr. Crouch) have referred to the high rate of unemployment in parts of North-East Kent, particularly the seaside resorts, and as a Kent Member I support their pleas for special help for those areas. In that part of the South-East which I represent, in North-West Kent, there are, in purely statistical terms, no serious unemployment problems. Our unemployment is somewhat above the level for London and the South-East, but marginally below the national average. However, this conceals what is really happening in that part of the world, because during the last few years there has been a series of factory closures and a scaling down of operation by some large industrial undertakings, many of which are household names—A.E.I. at Woolwich; British Oil and Cake Mills; C. A. Parsons; London Paper Mills; B.I.C.C.; and Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers. Many of my constituents work in these undertakings and have been affected by the fairly large-scale redundancies. It is a strange paradox that, despite these redundancies, the unemployment figures in that part of North-West Kent are not abnormally high, but the reason is very simple. Many of these people continue to live in the area, but they are travelling increasingly far each day to find work at the same remuneration as they enjoyed before. Two consequences flow from this. First, an already congested transport system—perhaps the most congested in the world—is being subjected to still further overload. Second, if the process is not  checked, an area which has hitherto been a thriving industrial area in its own right will increasingly become a dormitory area for other parts of the South-East. This is not right. We on this side place great stress on the need to build up the infrastructure in the areas in which we want to stimulate development, but, in the South-East, we have the infrastructure and in North-West Kent we have it, although there is always room for improvement—but we have the houses, the roads, the schools and the hospitals. Although the object of any regional development policy must be the better use of human resources, it must also concern itself with the better use of other amenities. Therefore, what I am asking is not that the Government should siphon off from the less favoured areas help towards the particular part of the South-East of which I am speaking; what I am asking is that they take note of the fact that something is happening on Thamesside that could be serious. I ask that, in formulating their policy for the grant of industrial development certificates, they have very careful regard to the need to maintain the level of industrial activity in that part of the world. I said that the employment figures were misleading. Very often, the instincts of ordinary men and women are a much more acurate guide. For this reason, about six months ago, I organised a survey in those parts of Dartford housing predominantly people who work locally, as opposed to commuters, to find out what they thought about this problem. Nearly half the 100 families we interviewed were pessimistic about the future employment prospects on Thamesside. Only one in eight declared himself fully confident. I have great faith in the instincts of ordinary men and women, and when nearly half the people in a particular situation are apprehensive, that is prima facie evidence, I believe, that a problem exists or is likely to. I ask the Government to consider this very carefully. There is one other economic activity in my constituency to which I should like to refer—not in the context of regional development but in relation to our application to join the Common Market. Horticulture is an important activity in the   Dartford constituency, and it is probably more vulnerable than any other activity in the country to European competition. Horticulturists throughout the country are apprehensive about the sort of transitional arrangements which will emerge from the current negotiations. I know that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster has this problem very much in mind, but I shall be taking a close interest in these terms as they emerge, as I am sure will every hon. Member with horticultural interests in his constituency. I have referred to what I believe to be the most important two problems facing my constituency—the run-down of heavy industry on Thamesside and the problems for horticulture if we join the Common Market. There are other problems, but I hope that none will suffer from lack of attention on my part. I thank the House for its forbearance.
