gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with great pleasure, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to address this House for the first time as Member of Parliament for South Angus—not out of any sense of personal gratification that the electorate of South Angus should have returned me as their Member of Parliament but because, for the greater part of the time that I was merely a prospective candidate in that constituency, it was the confident prediction of those people who claimed to know what was going on in Scotland that by 1980 there would not be a Member of Parliament for South Angus in this House. This last general election was to have been the independence election, at which the forces of separatism were to be triumphant. They have not been triumphant, and, with my six hon. Friends in constituencies from the Mull of Galloway to Peterhead, I am proud to have played a part in turning back that flood tide of separatism and to have reasserted that it is both possible to be Scots and British and, at the same time, to be proud to be both. My predecessor, Mr. Andrew Welsh, said when he made his maiden speech in this House that he and his colleagues were physical manifestations of a remarkable and fundamental change in Scottish politics. If that claim was true then, by the same token the regaining of seven seats from the Scottish National Party is an equally remarkable reversal of fortunes. The Conservative Party in Scotland may have had to learn an electoral lesson in Scotland, and, indeed, there are hon. Members on the Opposition Benches who may feel that they, too, have had to learn a similar lesson. But we have now learned our lesson, and never again shall we leave it to any one party in Scotland to claim a monopoly of the right to speak for the people of Scotland. It is not for me to attempt to assess the value of the contributions to the debates and proceedings that were made by my predecessor, Mr. Andrew Walsh, during his time in this House. But I note, and I am quite happy to record, that he certainly sought to represent the interests of his constituency. His defeat at the general election was not caused by any lack of personal endeavour on his part, nor was  it caused by any lack of care or concern for his constituents. I now have the honour of representing a constituency which I believe has the finest blend of what is essentially Scottish. Some of the richest and best-worked agricultural land in all Europe lies within the constituency, set against the backcloth of the Grampians rising up behind Strathmore and into Aberdeenshire. On one of my first tours of the constituency into the glens, I met a hill farmer who said to me ""Dinna bother lad, travellin' ony further from here to Her Majesty's estates at Balmoral—they're aal yours"". Confident of that enormous amount of electoral support, I must confess that I neglected it for some time until I discovered that from there to Her Majesty's estates at Balmoral there were one shepherd and two stalkers. If the general election had fallen in February rather than in May, they certainly would have been unable to get to the polling station. In the burghs of Angus there is a continuing tradition of skill in both engineering and weaving, carried on almost entirely without any industrial dispute or confrontation. They still talk in awestruck terms of ""the strike"" which lasted for 35 minutes in Forfar. The workers were back within the hour. Perhaps it was not surprising that a misplaced sense of nationalism reasserted itself within Angus, because, after all, it was in 1320 in Arbroath that the great Declaration of Independence was made. It was a moment of great history, but history it was and history it will remain. To the hon. Member for Dundee, East (Mr. Wilson) I should say that I look forward next year to associating myself with the re-enactment of that great moment of history in pageant form. But I hope that both he and others of his friends will forgive me if I give them this gentle reminder. At that great abbey, the patron saint is the most English of all saints—St. Thomas à Becket. While, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I hope you will understand my pride in representing the constituency of South Angus, I have to say that it is not without its problems. I anticipate that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland will have to take a very difficult decision on a proposed petrochemical development at Barry Buddon. It may be the largest single industrial development in Scotland   for at least 20 years, and it may provide much-needed jobs in Tayside. But at the same time the river Tay is possibly the largest unspoilt estuary in the United Kingdom, and it and its environment must be protected at all costs. While I come to this House both with great pleasure and relief, I do not come with a wholly uncritical eye. I am relieved that the Gracious Speech refers to the repeal of the Scotland Act. I consider that it was a divisive, costly and bureaucratic scheme which would not achieve the true devolutionary changes that Scotland requires. But I welcome the prospect that has been held out of all-party talks on devolution. The success of those talks remains to be seen, but I believe that in the calmer, more reflective atmosphere that now prevails in relation to devolution, there is a far greater opportunity to bring about the changes that people in all parties in Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom wish to achieve. I also welcome that passage in the Gracious Speech which refers to the opportunity to be given to hon. Members to examine their own procedures and to examine ways in which the work of the Government may be more effectively scrutinised. If this is meant to include a specific reference to the setting up of Select Committees, I particularly welcome it. The two passages relating to all-party talks on devolution and Select Committees are not linked. However, I believe that they are more closely interrelated than appears at first sight. If the Scottish Office is subjected to scrutiny by a Select Committee in Edinburgh, with all the glare of publicity, many of the changes we need will, I believe, have been met. If that is done, we shall be demonstrating to the people of Scotland that Westminster government, which in some senses has become a dirty word, both cares and works. I sense that it is the mood of this House that it in no way wishes to have the next Session filled up with business involving devolutionary changes for Scotland. But I urge—if not this year, certainly before 1983—that the matter should be looked at again. It should not be wholly neglected. We may have cooled the temperature of politics in Scotland, but what at present may appear to be  firm ground will turn out to be simply the crust of lava over a volcano which may erupt again unless we do something about it.
