gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Since this is my first intervention in a debate I must ask for the indulgence of the House. If in a slightly highly charged debate my remarks assume a rather partisan tinge I hope it will be attributed to inexperience and not to malice. Perhaps unusually, it falls to me to congratulate the hon. Member for Gateshead, West (Mr. Horam) on his maiden speech. He set a high standard which I shall find it hard to emulate. He obviously has a unique combination of qualifications, and I have no doubt that the House will listen to his subsequent speeches with great interest. May I also take time to pay tribute to my predecessors, who have represented Dover, Mr. David Ennals and Sir John Arbuthnott. I cannot speak at first hand of their contributions in this House, although I understand them to have been distinguished if perhaps slightly different in character. I can, however, speak at first hand of what they did in my constituency, and I think I speak for myself and the electors when I say that they served Dover well. They were assiduous in their constituency duties, and I shall try hard to match their assiduity. I suppose that every hon. Member considers that his own constituency is unique, and I claim boldly for Dover that no constituency has been so involved in the history of this country, particularly with its martial history, starting from the day when Julius Caesar set foot on British soil at Walmer. We are proud to boast that we have two cinque ports, Dover and Sandwich, and a third town, Deal, which has a long connection with the Royal Navy and the Royal Marines. I very much hope that this Administration will find it possible to preserve the connection with the Royal Marines. Dover also has a wide range of activities, from apple growing in the north to digging coal. I was not so bold as to align myself with the hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Michael Foot) when he asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give way to him as a representative of a coal mining constituency, but I can claim without undue immodesty to represent a coal mining constituency, although Dover has other interests too. This leads me to the first part of my right hon. Friend's statement, in particular to the part relating to public expenditure. One cannot help observing that the demands of the nationalised industries for capital will persist, demands of well over £1,000 million. Contrary to popular mythology, there can be no hon. Members on either side of the House who wish to see the nationalised industries founder. Certainly I do not wish to see the three pits in East Kent go under. But I feel that my right hon. Friend might give consideration to whether the nationalised industries could not raise more of their capital requirements from the market and less from the Exchequer. One of the most notable changes in budgeting since the war is the claim of the nationalised industries on the public exchequer; the other is that before the war our defence east of Suez was largely carried on the Indian Vote. The task of the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be eased if the nationalised industries could be induced to go to the market. It would probably be visionary to imagine that they could sell to the market equity capital, but it would at least be possible for them to issue debenture or loan stock. This must ease the Chancellor's task and also submit the nationalised industries to a form of commercial discipline. I pass to the second part of the statement, in particular to taxation. The right hon. Member for Birmingham, Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins), in his speech on Tuesday last week and in his questions to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, seemed to be trying to assimilate taxation to the charges imposed on us for welfare services. This is to reduce the debate to a semantic exercise. I am directing myself only to direct taxation as it is generally understood, certainly by the electors in my constituency. In any discussion of taxation one is asked to consider how the fiscal system advances social justice. I hope that on both sides of the House we are ultimately concerned with social justice, although possibly we may define our objectives in slightly different terms. I ask: what kind of social justice is there in the present fiscal system? I will give one example in the hope that the  Chancellor of the Exchequer will be able to take it up more fully in his next Budget. The other day I was approached in my constituency by an unmarried lady—[Laughter.]—purely on a financial basis, I assure the House—whose total gross income for tax purposes was not more than £565 in the last year. She is paying in 1969–1970 £50 by way of income tax. I was so staggered that I referred the matter to her inspector and he confirmed it. The reason is twofold. First of all, she was ill-judged enough unfortunately to buy a small annuity, which counts as unearned income. This points the moral that the distinction between earned and unearned income is quite meaningless. Secondly, she was a victim of the alteration in reduced rate reliefs introduced in the 1969 Finance Bill. Therefore, she moved quickly on to the standard rate. I am happy to say that she will be relieved of at least part of her burden by the cuts it direct taxation proposed by the Chancellor. However, I still find it staggering that she should be paying anything like as much as £50 per year. I hope very much that my right hon. Friend will be able to take further account of her case and of similar cases. The second test which must be applied to any fiscal system is, assuming it advances social justice, at what cost to the community is this achieved? Here I must declare a personal interest, as I gather is the custom in this House. I practise at the Revenue Bar, although the views which I advance politically are not likely to advance my professional practice because if the present Administration cuts direct taxation on the scale which I hope it will, then the demand for my services will then probably be considerably reduced. Hon. Members opposite have advanced the sophistical arguments that there is no evidence that high rates of taxation affect the economy and have any disincentive effect. I can speak from direct experience of contact with clients who have come to consult me. The first consequence of present high rates is that it is practically impossible to take any major business decision without considering the fiscal consequences. Time and again directors have come to consult me on what basically is a commercial operation. They are bound to consider   what fiscal effects this will have and whether any profit that might be made will be entirely absorbed by direct taxation. Their time in consulting me is entirely unproductive; it adds nothing to the gross national product of this country. Beyond that there is the whole area of tax evasion shading off into tax avoidance. I know that some hon. Members would consider that this activity is entirely monopolised by the richer sections of the community. This is certainly not my experience. Many of us are dependent on the good offices of a charlady to keep our houses clean. Some of us have had our houses decorated by people in their spare time. I am certain that a great percentage of these people do not declare those earnings and, frankly, with present rates of taxation, I do not blame them. There are those people who pass up opportunities for working overtime to undertake jobs in which they will not become subject to Schedule E and will not be under the direct control of their inspector. Then there are those people who can afford advice and, therefore, who fall into the area of avoidance. Two consequences strike me as particularly harmful. First, vast sums of money have passed to places like the Bahamas, Bermuda—and even the Cayman Islands, which nobody had even heard of five years ago. The reason is that it is cheaper to control capital there and that the impact of taxation is almost nonexistent. It must be of advantage to this country to coax that capital back. We shall do that only if we reduce the impact of direct taxation. I refer not to small cuts but to the bigger cuts which I am sure my right hon. Friend envisages in the long term. I welcome his immediate cuts, which I am sure are an earnest of what he intends to do over the life of this Administration. Leaving aside the question of capital, there are a number of people who have gone abroad to live in those countries, and perhaps to the Channel Islands, too. They are not, contrary to popular mythology, entirely rentiers. They are often people who have built up successful businesses and who, when the shadow of estate duty starts to fall across their path, ask themselves, ""Is it worth spending the last 15 years of my life in this  country and leave my executors to pay over 80 per cent. on the estate I have so carefully built up to the Exchequer?"" Who can blame them if they decide to leave Britain? They have something still to contribute to this country. I hope that we shall be able to coax them back so that they can make a further contribution to the economy of this country. I am conscious that I have taken up a good deal of the time of the House with my personal experience and that this may sound a little egotistical. However, I conclude by saying that I welcome the cuts that the Chancellor has been able to forecast and I hope that they are merely a pledge of more to come. I hope that it will not sound churlish or presumptuous of me if I ask my right hon. Friend to set as his objective the turning of this country into a tax haven. I am certain that we should be surprised if he did by the reserves of initiative, thrift and resources which he would uncover and which then would be available to set this country on its feet.
