gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye this morning, because you have given me the opportunity of making my maiden speech. I want to make my maiden speech in this debate not only because I have always been concerned about the method of financing local government but because any way of reducing the appalling burden on ratepayers in my constituency needs proper examination and quick action. I have the honour of representing the City of Chester. I am sure that many hon. Members have visited my constituency. It is by any standards a beautiful city which has preserved the traditions of the past, yet kept up to date with what it offers not only to the visitor but to those who reside within it. Chester is a major tourist area and as a result has many hotels. It is also a major shopping centre. It has the highest per capita spending of any shopping centre in the country, not because we in Chester are so rich but because six out of every seven shoppers come from outside. It is famous for its race meeting, and its zoo, which is the best in Europe. But the city which the visitor sees perhaps gives the wrong impression, because we have our problems. We have an enormous council estate, Blacon, and its problems are similar to those obtaining else-  where, so I should not like to over-state them. The name ""City of Chester"" is perhaps a misnomer, because I also represent a rural area. The constituency stretches from Puddington in the north-west to Elton in the north-east, from Saighton in the south-east to Dodleston in the south-west. Indeed, the dairy and cheese industry is most important to the well-being of my constituents. For the past 17 years Chester has been represented by Mr. Jack Temple. I am sure that you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, know how well respected he was in this House. If possible, he was respected even more in his constituency. Literally hundreds of people on whom I have called in the past year have said ""Goodness me, Mr. Temple did this or that for me."" If when I retire or am retired I can command the same respect I shall be well pleased. However, I do not underestimate the task before me. I turn now to the Bill. In a Written Answer to a recent Question from my hon. Friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton (Mr. Spence) the Secretary of State for the Environment said that he would gladly consider new proposals to finance local government. I hope that the Government will adhere to that answer. The present burden that the ratepayer has to bear has got out of all proportion. As my right hon. Friend the Member for Crosby (Mr. Page) pointed out, that is because of inflation and the services that we require. But any attempt to spread that burden needs very careful examination. I do not agree with all the proposals in the Bill—and I shall demonstrate why—but I hope that this measure will provoke further discussion on both sides of the House which will eventually lead to a radical reform of the method of financing local government. I should like to see proposals for a local income tax and a local sales tax being carefully examined. There is no doubt that rates at the moment are considered by large numbers of my constituents, and, I have no doubt, by constituents in other parts of the country, to be totally inequitable. They are particularly so for the retired couple or the retired single person, and any attempt to help them would be welcome. I believe that the idea of having local lotteries is a good one, because, as the hon. and learned Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington (Mr. Weitzman) said, there is a tradition in this country, which is growing, for a flutter—a gamble—and it seems ridiculous that we should not take advantage of it. Perhaps the lost flutter would, in the participant's mind, seem even more worth while if he knew that the proceeds were going to some local project. I was glad to hear my right hon. Friend say—and this is what I should like to see—that the project should be named in advance, whether it be a sports centre, a swimming bath or a home for the disabled. That would be a good selling point. I think that the rural ratepayer, compared to the urban ratepayer, would not have the objection to paying rates that he has in my constituency if he knew that a sports centre was being put up which would be funded out of a local lottery. If this part of the Bill is agreed to, the principle will be established that everybody and not just the householder, is contributing to the cost of a local project. I support the proposal for a fee in connection with planning applications. I should have objected had there not been a provision to exempt single dwelling-houses, but as there is provision for that I support this part of the Bill. I cannot go along with the proposal for a rating surcharge for hotels. In my constituency there are many good hotels, both large and small, and they play an important part because they provide beds for the tourists who spend their money in our shops. Times for the hotel trade—and, in particular, for the smaller hotel—are not too good at present. Hotels have already been discriminated against on several occasions, in particular with regard to VAT, and I believe that this part of the Bill would discriminate still further against them. We want them to be as full as possible, and if this part of the Bill is agreed to they may not be. As I said, this provision will affect not only hotels but the whole of the economy of a city such as Chester. Fewer tourists means less money spent in the shops. Any attempt to lessen the burden on the ratepayer is to be welcomed and  should be examined very carefully. No ratepayer in my constituency will think very much of Parliament if we are not prepared at least to entertain the idea of a new method of helping him.
