gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would ask hon. Members to exercise their customary tolerance to a Member making his first speech in this Committee. I hope that if, in the course of my remarks to the Committee, I make what are considered to be constructive criticisms of the Government's economic policy, this will not be considered indicative of a person representing a constituency noted throughout the world for its production of sauce. Indeed, in Worcestershire, we do not live by sauce alone. In fact, we have in the constituency of Worcester probably a greater diversity of industry and mixture of farming   than any other constituency in the country. This alone makes it difficult to be a worthy Member for such a constituency, and my difficulties are added to by endeavouring to attain the high standards of service to the constituency and to this House made by my noble and gallant predecessor, the former Secretary of State for Air. I should like to comment upon the views expressed by hon. Members opposite to the effect—and on this I certainly consider that there is some justification—that if we do provide incentive by means of Surtax reductions it is not necessarily a direct benefit to the export market. I think that Her Majesty's Government have to endeavour to see that, whatever incentive is given to greater effort as a result of this reduction in Surtax, it is directed towards our export effort. One of the problems, I believe, is that many of those who will be affected by such incentives are people who, if they decide to make a greater effort, will make that greater effort in the home market, primarily because they are not aware of the processes and arrangements involved in exporting. We must endeavour to create the type of atmosphere which exists in Western Germany where many of the business men consider that in some respects it is easier to export than it is to sell to the home market. One reason is that they get their money quicker. They use similar services to those provided by E.C.G.D. in this country and, in co-operation with the vigorous banking system existing in Western Germany, they are able to find means of disposing of their goods with every possible speed and obtaining their rewards for selling those goods. I would suggest to my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade that he should look into the possibility of seeing whether the very excellent facilities which he has provided through E.C.G.D. could be brought more vigorously to the attention of some of the smaller manufacturers in this country. We cannot do this, I suggest, by advertising to people the need to read the booklet on what E.C.G.D. covers, because the type of manufacturer concerned would not dream of doing that. I suggest to my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade that he should endeavour to make an  approach to the chairmen of the joint stock banks asking them to use their very close association with small business men and manufacturers throughout the country to make known to them, through their bank managers, the methods involved in exporting. For example, the President of the Board of Trade might suggest to them that they should make arrangements for the branch managers of the banks either to attend a conference or to be briefed in some other way by the officials of the E.C.G.D., and through them to contact their customers. This, I believe, would ensure a very substantial increase of knowledge of the services provided in this country. The other point on which I wish to comment is the concern with which I view the very sharp decline in the trend of our Commonwealth trade. In the years 1954 to 1959, we had the unfortunate position where the rise in the imports of the overseas non-sterling countries was not as great as in the rest of the world. This was a reasonable excuse for arguing that our exports were not rising to the same degree as those of other exporting countries. But, in the year 1960, we saw a position in which there was a very sharp rise in the imports of overseas sterling countries. But, alas, this country did not obtain its share of that very sharp rise. In fact, we saw a position where, if we had maintained our proportion of Commonwealth trade over the years 1954 to 1960, we should have exported last year to the overseas sterling markets about £300 million more than we did. This in itself would have met the deficit of trade which we showed last year. I suggest that it is the urgent duty of Her Majesty's Government to pay far more attention to the markets of the Commonwealth than they have done in the past. I certainly feel that there has been something of a negative attitude towards the Commonwealth markets. There has been a tendency, because we have been closed out of the Common Market, to call the Finance Ministers of the Commonwealth to this country not to discuss and formulate a vigorous policy for expanding our trade with the Commonwealth but to discuss the concessions which they may be willing to make to   get into the Common Market countries. This is a matter which, I believe, has contributed to this large fall in the proportion of Commonwealth trade enjoyed by this country. In fact, it would appear that we are beginning to give away the substance of Commonwealth trade for the potage of possibilities elsewhere. I ask the Government to give far more attention to the problem. There are many things which we could do in the long-term and in the short-term to increase trade and economic development within the Commonwealth. I suggest that we should look at the possibilities of a policy based on the three fundamentals of economic growth—men, money and markets. During the last General Election it was commented by the party on this side of the Committee that there was a need probably to provide some form of education appropriate to executive training, similar to the education provided by such institutions as the Harvard School of Business Administration. I ask Her Majesty's Government to give some consideration to going ahead with a project, possibly on a Commonwealth basis, whereby we could obtain or create an élite of business executives of the future, Commonwealth-minded and well aware of the potentialities of that market. As for money, I find it difficult to argue that there is need to spend a vast amount of money on the military defence of the Commonwealth—with which I agree. I do not in any way support a policy of disarmament, unless under international control, and I certainly do not take a unilateralist view—but to argue that it is correct to spend a great deal on the military defence of the Commonwealth and then do relatively so little for its economic defence is something which I believe is to many hon. Members a matter of very grave concern. When one notices the increase in economic penetration by the Communists in the countries of Africa and Asia, I believe that we shall very soon have to decide what vehicles we shall use and what new methods we shall employ to bring about a far greater and faster development of under-developed territories within our Commonwealth. To this end, I would very much urge upon the Government to consider  whether or not one of the problems involved is the question of Ministerial responsibility and the fact that there is no Ministry which has the responsibility of arousing the interest of this country in the problems of Commonwealth economic development. My right hon. Friend the Colonial Secretary and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations are both heavily involved in political problems abroad, in the Commonwealth countries, and neither can be expected to try to arouse the economic interest of this country in the problems of those countries. We should give thought to this so that in time we shall have meetings of Commonwealth Finance Ministers and economic advisers to create the kind of dynamic, vigorous, Commonwealth economic policies which will stimulate Commonwealth markets and bring about an expansion of the economy of this country.
