gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I ask the indulgence of the Committee on rising to address it for the first time? I think it is right and proper that in any of these general agricultural debates some Member representing Northern Ireland should intervene, because we who represent agricultural constituencies in Northern Ireland undoubtedly represent more actual farms and farmers than any other hon. Members. We are a community of small family farmers, almost all of us owning our own holdings. Nearly all of us till our soil with our own hands, the soil which in most cases has been tilled by our fathers and grandfathers before us. We are essentially the biggest collection of family farmers in the United Kingdom. Our agricultural industry is our very life blood, and the whole prosperity of our province fundamentally depends on our agriculture. Generally speaking, the main problem from an agricultural point of view with which this country is faced is to increase production in order to improve our balance of payments position; secondly,  we must never forget and must always keep a watchful eye on the cost of living which bears so heavily on us all. It is necessary for us to produce from our own fertile fields as much of our food and animal feedingstuffs as we possibly can, and at the same time make sure that our agricultural products appear on the market at the lowest possible price. The 1947 Agricultural Act was surely devised to reconcile these two somewhat conflicting problems, and in my view it has worked exceedingly well. I am very glad to hear the Minister undertake to continue its main provisions of guaranteed prices and assured markets. My view is that if we are to increase our agricultural production by a further 15 per cent. it is mainly to the smaller farms throughout the United Kingdom that we must look. Surely by now the factory farms and broad acres, with all their advantages of mechanisation and availability of capital, must have very nearly reached the peak of their production. I feel that it is mainly, though of course, not entirely, to the small farmers that we must look to obtain the increase of production which is so vitally necessary to us all. In general, the small farms are located in more distant and remote parts of the kingdom, far away from their markets in the urban districts. I must frankly say that we in Northern Ireland have been somewhat perturbed by the only scheme which is so far in operation, namely the interim egg scheme. It seems to me that this scheme, if anything, tends to benefit the broad acres and those who are near their markets, to the disadvantage of the smaller people who have a long distance to send their goods. Since the interim egg scheme was introduced, our farmers in Northern Ireland have, generally speaking, received 3d. a dozen less for their eggs than in other parts of the United Kingdom. This is a very serious matter for us, because in Northern Ireland the poultry industry is not just an ancillary one. It is one of our main agricultural sources of income. I should like to quote a few figures to show of what vital importance our poultry industry is to us. In 1950 we exported across the Irish Sea 48 million dozen eggs; in 1951, 43 million dozen   eggs; and in 1952, 41 million dozen eggs, in round figures worth an annual sum of £10 million to our farmers. It can readily be seen that it is a very serious matter if the price we receive lags behind that which is received in England. I and my hon. Friends have received a good many letters on this subject from our constituents, and small farmers do not readily take to the pen. They write letters only when they feel very deeply about something. Here is a typical example—from a letter which was received by one of my hon. Friends the other day: As our representative at Westminster I wish to draw your attention to the very law price we are getting for eggs compared to what producers are receiving in England. Our eggs have been 3s. 6d. a dozen for quite a few weeks now, and this with meal 5½ times the prewar price. This price is no use at all. If prices do not improve we will be obliged to sell out. I bought four tons of hard coal nuts last week. The price was £42 2s. delivered. There is a postcript to which I would ask the Minister to pay attention, because he can hardly disagree with it, and it sums up in seven words the whole of our problem. P.S. Our farms cannot be moved to England. We have had to bear the burden of incoming freight for a very long time. Our coal—as evidenced by this letter—our agricultural machinery and many of our fertilisers and feedingstuffs, all of which we import across the Irish Sea, cost us slightly more than they do anywhere else except in a few very remote parts of Scotland. We have always cheerfully borne this burden because we have felt that we have been fairly treated in receiving parity of price with our English, Scottish and Welsh friends, but, being of a somewhat canny nature—many of us emanate from Scotland—we are perturbed at the pattern which has been set by the Government's interim egg scheme. I agree that this is only an interim scheme, it has not been running for very long, and that we should not judge it too rapidly, but many people in my constituency are gravely alarmed at the thought that this scheme may set the general pattern for future schemes which the Government have in mind. I would ask the Minister three questions. First, can he tell us when this  interim scheme is likely to be replaced by a permanent and more just arrangement? Secondly, supposing the interim scheme is still in force when the next Price Review takes place in the spring, how are prices to be calculated when different parts of the country obtain different amounts for their commodities? It seems that the price for the fortunate producer near his market must either be too high, if the person at the other end of the scale is to get a reasonable price or, alternatively, if the fortunate man living near his market gets the right price for his eggs, giving him a reasonable margin of profit, the unfortunate man at the other end must get too little. This seems to be fundamental in any scheme where parity of price does not exist. I should be extremely grateful if the Minister could explain exactly how price fixing can be arranged where parity of prices does not exist. Lastly, if he can possibly do so, I should like to be assured about something which is causing grave anxiety throughout Northern Ireland. Our potato crop is a most vital one. Owing to our soil and local conditions, it is virtually the only root crop that we can satisfactorily grow. I want to know if the Minister can give us an unqualified assurance that, whatever scheme the Government may ultimately have in mind for this commodity, we shall receive a fair price. I should also like him to give us an undertaking that our crop will be moved gradually throughout the winter months, and not solely in the late spring and early summer.
