gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I apologise to the Committee for rising rather early in the debate, and I ask for the indulgence which hon. Members so generously give to new and nervous speakers. My trepidation is increased by the knowledge that my distinguished predecessor had already established his reputation and career as a Government Whip at the time when I was a private soldier serving on a Regular engagement of seven years. Perhaps it is not inappropriate that the Member for Beckenham should say a few words in this debate at a time when the Army is thinking of turning towards rocket warfare. For the people of Beckenham already know much about rocket warfare, and no constituency was harder hit in the days of V.1s and V.2s. Indeed, we still see the scars of those early guided missiles not far from the High Street of Beckenham. This afternoon I want to talk of a form of warfare rather less remote, for during the past twelve months I have been fortunate enough to see our Army in action in Kenya and at Suez. In many ways it was pleasant to see old friends again, to meet old traditions, to feel the spirit of comradeship and loyalty. In other respects, it was less pleasant. It was less pleasant to meet again old and familiar and unfortunately antiquated equipment. I have every sympathy with the battalion in Cyprus which, shortly after the Suez operation, decided to invite some of their French comrades to visit them. They wanted to show some new equipment, but they found they had nothing to show their French allies. So they went to some Turkish policemen nearby and borrowed from them four of  the new Sterling sub-machine guns, to which my right hon. Friend referred this afternoon. They duly showed them to the French, who were much impressed, because they are excellent weapons. It seems slightly odd that Turkish gendarmes in Cyprus should have these new guns, that the Kenya Police Reserve should have had these new guns for almost three years, whereas our airborne forces in the Suez operation had to rely on out-of-date Sten guns. I fully sympathise with the problems which face my right hon. Friend when it comes to equipment. On the one hand, there are people like myself, who say that it is deplorable that the Army should have out-of-date weapons and equipment and, on the other hand, there are people like myself who say that it is deplorable that the Secretary of State should have chosen to re-equip an Army at this time, because if he had waited for only a few more months he would have been able to get a much better sort of weapon for the Army. I find myself using both arguments about wireless sets, because I was much distressed to find in Kenya and at Suez that our wireless sets were only too often out of date, and, indeed, the same wireless sets with which I unsuccessfully wrestled some thirteen or fourteen years ago. I ought to welcome the decision to introduce the new and greatly improved wireless sets to which the Secretary of State referred this afternoon, but I find myself thinking that it might have been better to have waited a few months or years, because in other countries a revolution in signals equipment is taking place and, if not now, they will fairly soon be equipped with transistor sets, which are much lighter and much more compact and would seem to give a much better performance than those which we are now introducing. It seems a pity to introduce at very great expense equipment which must all too soon be obsolete. When soldiers receive out of date and inefficient equipment, the more knowledgeable officers are all too ready to blame the Ministry of Supply. In many cases that blame is misplaced, but there is some ground for the criticism of the Ministry of Supply about wireless sets because, at the moment, the Ministry is not dealing effectively with that problem. The experts and officials at the Ministry of Supply are giving too much priority to the more remote schemes for electronic development, and the Royal Air Force is all too often scooping the rest of the pool. It may be desirable and pleasant to maintain constant wireless communication with an artificial earth satellite revolving around the world, but that is not much consolation to a company slogging across forest or mountain range and totally unable to maintain contact with its near neighbours. I should like my right hon. Friend to look into the matter of the Ministry of Supply and the development of wireless sets. I should like him also to consider whether it is not possible to extend the tour of certain officers in the War Office who advise on technical questions on equipment, for it seems that only too often they are posted away as soon as they have mastered their highly complex jobs. Finally, I should like him to tackle with renewed vigour, as I know he is already doing, the problem of surpluses. The Treasury says quite rightly that the Services cannot have new equipment while they continue to have large stocks of material left over from previous engagements. No sensible man would willingly order large numbers of electric razors while hoping to get rid of 8 million razor blades. However, at the moment that rule may be cutting across operational efficiency. The Secretary of State referred to the Saladin armoured car. I have reason to believe that this excellent armoured car was almost strangled at birth, if one can strangle at birth an armoured car, because the Treasury said that there were far too many old Daimler scout cars still left from the last war. I should like my right hon. Friend to look most carefully at the matter of surplus stores. Like many others, I believe that the only danger of nuclear warfare comes from a local war spreading and getting out of control, and I believe that a strong if small British Army is the best deterrent to local war. It would be an international tragedy if our military prowess were to be buried beneath a great mountain of surplus battle dress.
