gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The mover and seconder of the Address yesterday asked for the sympathy and tolerance of the House in making their first efforts, and I think it is right to say that they had both sympathy and tolerance. I would like to say that in one respect I am in the same position, as I am myself a new Member, but my position has been enhanced because of certain events which have happened. Various remarks of the former Prime Minister, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), I think we must all agree, were most controversial. Yesterday, the first day in this House, we had the first Division, and I think all hon. Members will sympathise with me even more than with the first speakers yesterday, for being called upon to be non-controversial, as Mr. Speaker asked us when he was appointed a week ago. I shall therefore not attempt to be non-controversial; I am just going to say what I want to say. First, I want to welcome, for myself and the remainder of my party, and for many more outside the House, the proposals which have been put before us by the Labour Government in the King's Speech and in the speech of the Prime Minister yesterday. I believe that this welcome which I express is shared by the majority of the nation. I believe, further, that hundreds of thousands of men and women in this country, who have, for two generations, striven to see some of the legislation now to be introduced, are now living the most joyous days of their lives. There are men on these benches older than myself who have striven for   the introduction of legislation which will, indeed, bring a new era and a happy life to the people. I believe we are now about to witness it, and I believe that the two VJ-Days just passed could truly be said to be not just days of victory over Japan but, equally, victorious and joyous days for the people in that they coincided with the return of a new Government and a new type of Government in this country. I believe this change is equally welcome to the people of the Dominions, not least Australia and New Zealand, also to the people of India, and, for that matter, in spite of what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford said yesterday, to the many peoples of the Continent. For my own borough of Stepney, which has the honour of returning three Members of Parliament, one of whom is the Prime Minister, another the Civil Lord of the Admiralty and the third, with due modesty, myself, I can say that the people there are as proud as any section of the whole country of the fact that a Labour Government has been returned and has been able to introduce so speedily its proposals for forthcoming Legislation. I represent a division which has suffered the ravages of Fascism and capitalism. During the war, Stepney, I believe it is true to say, has been as heavily bombed as any borough in the country. Some of its best sons and daughters have made the supreme sacrifice, and its workers, dockers and transport workers, have done their utmost to bring about victory. I know that I do not have to ask this side of the House, but I will ask the whole House, to remember that, before the war, Stepney and other places suffered severely from the ravages of capitalism, and when I address myself to post-war problems such as housing, I have in mind not merely the houses destroyed by enemy bombers but also those which were allowed to dilapidate by British capitalists. It is because of these things that our people are expecting the fruits of victory—the fruits that were promised so easily by certain hon. Members now sitting on the other side in the early days of the war, but since forgotten. Our people in Stepney, and the whole nation, deserve the best that the country can provide. I propose to speak directly on housing, but I want to make one or two remarks on some other subjects which have been  dealt with. I am deeply concerned, as we all are, with the forthcoming transition from war to peace production. As an hon. Gentleman opposite said earlier, we would like to know what the Government propose with regard to the allotting of the labour of the 1,000,000 workers in war industries, who, as announced by the Prime Minister yesterday, will be unemployed in the next few months. It is possible that the Government have such measures in view. I am confident that this Government will resolve this question far more than would any other; and let all of us remember that. Whatever decisions are taken on this question, it will certainly take time to implement them, and I am very concerned indeed that those workers who, through no fault of their own, find themselves unemployed shall endure no loss of pay for that reason. There must be ways and means of making up their pay by raising the unemployment allowance agreed to in this House a few months ago, or by some other method, in order that they shall not lose because of something which is not of their making. I, like others on these benches—I doubt whether there are any on the opposite benches—have spent some time of my life during the war in signing on at the employment exchange. We have seen that our country, with a planned economy for war for six years could provide for the needs of the nation and give people full employment. A planned economy for peace could do likewise. I therefore ask the Government to give this matter their attention. On the question of housing, I believe the Government are unfortunate in inheriting a legacy from the previous Government of chaotic and ineffective administration. Evidence of this is to be found in the fact that on the benches opposite are sitting hon. Members who, a little while ago, were asking that there should be a greater degree of co-ordination on the question of the reconstruction of houses. This morning the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Butler) took the opportunity to scoff at the fact that the Government have so far not introduced any measures for co-ordination by way of producing housing. Nevertheless, he knows well that such an opportunity existed months ago and was not implemented. I am confident that the Government will do   this. The Government should apply themselves to a long-term policy. The Prime Minister indicated yesterday that this is what is now planned, but I would ask you, Mr. Speaker, to remember that I speak on behalf of one of the worst areas in London, if not in the country, and that we should not neglect giving the attention required to the immediate rehousing of the homeless and overcrowded people. I am not satisfied with the degree of requisitioning that has gone on. I will give two examples. In the Borough of Ealing, which is represented by an hon. Gentleman opposite, and in which I lived for two or three years until recently, there are numbers of unoccupied houses of 12, 14 and 16 rooms, and the local authority are making no effort to convert them. I, and the Civil Lord of the Admiralty, who represents another Stepney division, know that in Stepney there are thousands of people who would be delighted to take advantage of such property if that were done. I can give another example from the borough in which we are at present sitting where there are hundreds of houses and flats which could be occupied. Within a quarter of a mile from here one can see houses to be let, but many people who might take them find them beyond their pockets or bank balances. I would like attention to be given to the carrying out of speedier final repairs. This morning I laughed aloud at a reference made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden to the efforts of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for North Croydon (Mr. Willink), for this reason: I am a borough councillor and we know, time and time again, how our efforts are impeded in view of contradictory directions; for each one contradicts the other, and they often cancel themselves out. The right hon. and learned Member, at the end of March, boasted of how many houses had been repaired. Many of the public, and possibly hon. Members in this House, may not have known that he was speaking not of final repairs, but of patched-up houses. If some hon. Members opposite doubt that, let them come with the Civil Lord of the Admiralty and myself to Stepney and see what we mean by patched-up houses. We require to make final repairs to these houses, and  more speedily, and I ask the Government to give the matter their attention. I want to deal with some aspects of the long-term question of housing. My authority—the Stepney borough council—has in hand plans to put up some 1,200 houses and flats in the first two years. I have expressed myself as dissatisfied with this as I think the number could have been more. What are required are materials, labour and the word ""Go."" The Government now have the opportunity of dealing with these three things. They should take over the control of materials and speed up the release of Grade B of the Armed Forces and further expand the schemes for supplying labour in the industry. Many members of the Forces have written to me asking whether they could train for the building industry, as they would like to do something to help in building up their country, which they have been defending for the last six years. I do not disagree with the right hon. Gentleman who asks for opportunities to be given to the private builders to build houses. All that I ask is that the Government should ensure that private builders are likewise guided—hon. Members opposite hate the word ""controlled""—as to what they are to build. Statistics about the number of houses built between the wars give very little guidance as to the number of working-class houses built by private enterprise for renting. I state this point of view of myself and my party by indicating that we are not opposed to private enterprise building. We are opposed to private enterprise building without Government guidance as to what they should build. The first question is the question of land. It may interest some hon. Members to know that I was present in the Gallery of this House a few months ago listening to some aspects of the Debate when the most inadequate Town and Country Planning Bill was before the House, and I am not happy about that Measure. The Government should take over unused land and should make reasonable compensation to the people to whom the land belongs, and they should make use of the land according to the needs of the people through the local authorities and others. I am very concerned about the question of finance. In Stepney, on this scheme to which I have already referred, we are to spend£1,200,000 on 1,200   houses and flats—an average of£1,000 a house. We are to pay£350,000 out of that for land, in some cases at£30,000 an acre. Anyone who has had the opportunity of seeing Stepney recently may wonder what we are paying for. We know whom we are paying, but we are not quite sure for what we are paying. Further, we have to pay substantial sums for materials. It is a well known fact that the price of bricks has gone up some four and a half times since the beginning of the war. It is also well known that the steel ring, with which some hon. and right hon. Members of this House are acquainted, has been responsible for not producing one ton more of steel throughout the whole of this war, while our merchant seamen have had to bring supplies from America. 12,000,000 tons were produced in 1939 and 12,000,000 likewise were produced in 1943. I would say this, that if this Government gives attention to some of these questions, takes control of the land for the needs of the people, ensures on the one hand that these rings are controlled and that there are reduced rates of interest, then these are some of the means for implementing the legislation which is about to be put before us. I would conclude by saying that I am firmly convinced that the electorate of this country have done a remarkably good job. The announcement only last week of the introduction of the atom bomb to modern warfare, followed by some of the atomically energetic expressions of the right hon. Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) yesterday afternoon, give, in my opinion, great cause to be grateful for the opportunities that open before us as envisaged by His Majesty's Government.
