gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I notice that the hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Sydney Irving) has resumed his seat because he is not feeling well. I hope that he will quickly recover. When I first arrived on this planet I made my ""maiden speech"" on the first day. I am told that it was raucous, incoherent and, so far as could be ascertained, ill-informed. Therefore, I was determined that when I first arrived in the House of Commons I would exercise a modicum of caution in the hope that when I had the temerity to address the House I might avoid the more distressing features of sound and fury that characterised my earlier effort. Indeed, I was prepared to wait much longer than this to make my maiden speech but for the importance of the subject and the fact that it is one of great interest in my constituency, Acton. Acton, as every school boy—every primary school boy—knows, and as, I hope, most right hon. and hon. Gentlemen may be aware, is the most highly industrialised area south of the Birmingham-Coventry axis. It is hardly surprising, therefore, that I should want to say something about technical education. In my constituency of Acton we have what is almost certainly—here perhaps I am being excessively modest—the finest technical college in the country.   This is not only because Acton's Brunei College has an enthusiastic staff of high calibre, a fine modern building and excellent, if not lavish, equipment, but also because of the close co-operation which exists between some of our industrialists and the college in the matter of arranging, for example, sandwich courses. Here I do not refer exclusively to the curricula of the Acton Catering College. Some industrialists in Acton are among the most enlightened in the country in the further education of their younger employees. I regret that I have to say only some of them, because the position will not be wholly satisfactory until not only all industrialists, but all employers of young people—girls as well as boys, as my right hon. Friend pointed out—are prepared to invest some of the working time of their younger employees in further education. Nevertheless, we have in Acton a wealth of ""know-how"" on matters relating to vocational further education. My right hon. and hon. Friends on the Front Bench could do much worse than consult the interested people and interested organisations in Acton on such important questions as block release and day release, on the need for non-vocational further education, and, indeed, on the very important question whether we have yet sufficient technical colleges to be able at this stage to switch some of our staffing and accommodation potential to the provision of non-vocational education. As we have heard already, the Crowther Committee decided that county colleges with their non-vocational courses should be established only after raising the school-leaving age from. 15 to 16, which it does not envisage happening until the end of this decade. I hope that I may say a few words about the extra compulsory year to be achieved by raising the school-leaving age without placing too great a strain on the indulgence of the House by being excessively controversial. Indeed, I shall try not to be controversial. During the past three months I have been spending quite a lot of time visiting schools. Some of them—of course, the best of the ones I visited—were in Acton. I have also been talking to what I think  is a fair cross-section of the school mistresses and school masters currently teaching in Acton. I have been chatting with many parents, and I have even been questioning children about the main provisions of the Crowther Report in general and the raising of the school-leaving age in particular. From all that I have seen and heard in the past few weeks—I have heard nearly all aspects of the question —it seems to be an inescapable conclusion that as our civilisation advances so must our education advance, both in quality and in quantity. I hope that my hon. Friend the Parliamentary Secretary noted that I mentioned ""quality"" first. Having underlined that point, may I go on to say that my general conclusion is, after all, only a recognition of what is happening already and has been happening already in this century. As many hon. Members will be aware, it was the 1918 Act that finally raised the school-leaving age without exemption to 14. Even the earlier permissive Act was only sixty years ago. Raising the school-leaving age from 14 to 15 was first mentioned in the 1936 Act, though this could not be implemented until after the war. as all hon. Members know. In the light of the history of education in this century, a new raising of the school-leaving age is, after all, only an extension of and a development from earlier rises in the school-leaving age. Obviously, I do not suggest that we should continue the trend ad infinitum. Nevertheless, I do not think that we have yet reached the limit in education. I shall certainly be surprised, like other speakers, if we find much disagreement in the country on the principle of raising the school-leaving age. What I think is controversial is timing. I propose, therefore, to leave it to other hon. Members not making their maiden speeches to be particularly dogmatic on this point. May I, however, endorse what my right hon. Friend said—I hope that he will not take this as a precedent—about fixing at this stage a precise date for raising the school-leaving age to 16. I, too, have a feeling that we need to see a little more progress in new school building, in teacher recruitment, in reducing the size of classes and, indeed, a little more progress in new training facilities for teachers. I think, too, that we must do much hard thinking and carry out much research into what we are going to do and what shall be our aim for this final year when we raise the school-leaving age. I am advised that at present many children in their fifteenth year, fretting to cast off school discipline and to share in the admittedly attractive rewards for labour outside the classroom, become so unruly as to be almost completely unmanageable in the dying months of their school life. With an extra year's education before the final year, this tendency to un-ruliness may well decline, but I do not think that we should rely on this to any great extent, and I do not think that we can bank on it in our calculations. What should be our aims for the final year when the school-leaving age is raised? I am not so bold as to suggest the curriculum, but let us think of it in terms of age. Do we want the children merely to be subjected to another year's imposed discipline in the hope that, being a little more mature, when they leave they will be the better able to exercise the self-discipline so necessary in this crowded community of ours? Or do we want to try to educate them a stage further in academic knowledge? This is the aim now with children who stay on voluntarily, because these are children who want to learn now and have the aptitude and keenness to learn more. But should it be the aim with more children when they are compelled to stay on for another year, or do we want to stimulate their curiosity about the community life around them and, having done so, help to channel their natural interests and aptitudes into responsible and responsive avenues during the difficult transition to full maturity? There are a number of alternatives, but I will not add to or enlarge upon the three possible alternative aims I have suggested. One of my most vivid recollections of the first week's debate in this Parliament was an awful warning given to us by the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan). He said that particularly those of us who are new to the House must realise that there stretch out before us endless hours of infinite boredom which will be almost unendurable. I have found membership of the House of Commons far more stimulating and exciting than I ever believed possible.  However, while the right hon. Gentleman failed to convince me with his assertion, I confess that I liked his manner of making it. I hope that we shall not be deprived of his oratory in the House for very much longer. At the same time, I have no wish by any action of mine to increase the risk of his October prophecy coming true. While I cannot guarantee an absence of tedium, I can at least ensure that it will not, through my fault, stretch out into endless hours.
