gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House this afternoon for the first time, I wish to claim, as other of my colleagues have done, the indulgence which, I understand, is traditionally given on the occasion of a maiden speech. I will try to be as uncontroversial and as un-provocative as I possibly can. The constituency of Coventry, South which I represent is probably well known to many hon. Members. It is associated with the name of Miss Burton, my predecessor, and on this occasion I should like to say how well  she worked for the constituency during the time she represented it. It is perhaps ironical that the good fortune of one party should be the misfortune of another, but that, I suppose, is how politics have worked for some considerable time. I think that if I were to forecast what will be said in most of the speeches this afternoon, it would be that everybody would want to see more houses and more housing accommodation provided. I believe that that accommodation can be and will be provided in due course in various ways. Houses, flats and bungalows for old people will probably be provided by local authorities and by private builders, but, as was said earlier this afternoon, it would appear that in recent years the proportion of one to the other has become approximately equal. It has been said on many occasions, and has been written, that in order to rehouse the people from the blighted and slum districts and to keep pace with normal housing demands, it will be necessary in, possibly, the next twenty years to build something like 400,000 houses a year. It is obviously going to be a very great problem and one which will become more and more difficult as the years go by owing to the shortage—and it is a very real shortage—of the basic material of building, land. I have no doubt that in recent months many hon. Members have noticed that the price of land suitable for development has risen very sharply. That rise in the price reflects, I believe, the shortage of land. Land which a few years ago could have been bought for hundreds of pounds today fetches as many thousands of pounds. In some instances, the price has gone up by as much as ten times. From the analysis which the Ministry has made of the development plans of a large number of local authorities, it would appear that something of the order of 15,000 acres are going to be used each year for residential purposes. This acreage of land, I believe, is far too small to enable us to keep up with the rate of building that will be necessary. If we assume that twenty dwellings per acre are built on the 15,000 acres—and that will not allow for any of the gardens which it has been suggested many people want surrounding   their property—it will give us only 300,000 houses a year. That rate of building, I submit, will not keep up with the pace of house building that is necessary. In view of the fact that these development plans were drawn up in the late 1940's and the early 1950's, when the problems were different from what they are today, I believe that the time is now ripe, especially as the quinquennial reviews are about to take place, for those plans to be drastically reviewed. At the same time, some regard must be had for the problem of the balance between land allocated for local authority housing and land which can be used for private building. Land which is made available for private building could easily be integrated with that which is made available for local authority building. To a certain extent, I should like the problems of slum clearance, which for far too long have been the sole prerogative of the local authorities, to be handed over to private developers. I believe that is possible. The local authorities have the power compulsorily to acquire land. If we study the problems in the blighted areas, we find that it is impossible for a private concern to buy enough land from all the different owners. If local authorities would exercise their power and compulsorily acquire the land and then offer it for sale to private concerns, either on a freehold or a leasehold basis, I believe that private enterprise would be able to play its part and bring its energies to bear in overcoming this very difficult problem. If we could get some private development within these redevelopment areas it would also mean that we should have more of a mixed community. Far too often we find that where slum clearance has taken place the people tend to stick together far too much. I am quite sure that if we could mix the community it would, in the long run, be beneficial for those living in the district. Some may well say that it would be far too costly to carry out this sort of thing. From investigations I have made, however, it would appear that the cost of buying in the properties is in the region of £6,500 per acre. The cost of demolition today is extremely low, and if we compare the  price of £6,500 per acre with the amount of money which some land seems to fetch in sales and auctions at present, we find that those two figures are similar. It is essential that the dwellings provided are as economical as possible for the persons living in them, having regard to good standards of construction and design. I believe that good housing is a sound and worthy objective and must be encouraged. Encouragement will be self-defeated, however, if the houses which people want to buy or to rent, and can afford, are impossible to obtain because there is no land upon which to build them.
