gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is appropriate that, as I address the House for the first  time I should do so on a subject of profound significance both in a hard practical sense and in simple terms of morale for the people of my constituency. I come from an area that is not exactly renowned for its overwhelming Tory tradition and my constituency might not demographically be considered a Conservative paradise. It is an all-urban seat at the core of a major industrial city that dominates the traditional heavy industrial heartland of Tyneside. Despite some leafy avenues and affluent areas, one in five of the working population can find no job. It includes some of the most deprived inner city areas, where old industry has died for good but little has come in its place, and a sense of uselessness pervades the lives of many who, without hope, scratch out a meagre day-to-day existence. Hand in hand with this inner city tradition runs the Labour tradition, and it is not surprising that the areas in which 38,000 of my constituents live have not been represented by a Conservative Member for 38 years. Until June, those areas were served by no fewer than three Labour Members of Parliament. It is clear that there has been a marked advance in productivity. I wish to pay tribute to the work of the hon. Members for Newcastle upon Tyne, North (Mr. Brown), for Wallsend (Mr. Garrett) and for Tyne Bridge (Mr. Cowans) who represent a valid, if dated, Tyneside Labour tradition and whose work for the people of Tyneside is undoubted. They are genuine and caring men. As one who has frequently written about their activities in the region's excellent morning paper, The Journal, I compliment them on the energies that they have devoted to representing the interests of Tyneside. I hope that at times we shall work together in that common interest. It is only right that I reserve special mention for Sir William Elliott, the former hon. Member for the old constituency of Newcastle upon Tyne, North, from whom I inherited 25,000 constituents. He served Newcastle in this place for 26 years and did so with consistent honesty, dedication to purpose and loyalty to his constituents and to his party. Drawing from his sensitive nature, Sir William looked after his constituents with a devotion and patience equalled by few, continually demonstrating the caring spirit in the best Conservative tradition. He was always a stalwart defender of his principles and of his party in the House. I am sure that all hon. Members who knew him will join with me in praising his work. Sir William, in his last speech in the House in a regional debate, said: The north-east of England wishes, above all, to play its full part in the strong economic future of this country as it certainly played its part in our strong economic past.""—[Official Report, 9 February 1983; Vol. 36, c. 1071.] Of course he is right. It is particularly right to stress the pride that Tyneside has in its great tradition of industry and the years when its successes made it the workshop of England. What has been can be again and nothing more unites the people of the north-east than that determination. But it is not a determination to squeeze more cash out of Government or merely to prosper at the expense of other regions. Neither is it a desire to wave the begging bowl until it is filled to overflowing while refusing to accept the vital need for initiative and self-help. The north asks for its problems to be recognised and expects a little understanding from Government — an understanding   which has not been sufficiently forthcoming from this Government or their predecessors during the past 20 years or more. The north-east needs incentives on which to build a new future. In return, I believe that it is prepared to offer the very best in industrial tradition, hard work, high productivity, top quality, inventiveness and innovation. Of course we accept that millions of pounds have been poured into industry and firms as regional aid to the northeast and other regions. However, aid policy has not always achieved its purpose nor has it always been directed in the most effective way. Special development areas have been of great benefit but, alone, they are rot sufficient. If we rely too heavily on assisted area status, we all know that other regions will demand such status and the whole operation will deteriorate into a destructive and humiliating auction. Direct cash aid is not the most important or effective way in which Government can help. Far more vital is the provision of the highest quality regional infrastructure, especially transport links, and improvement of the quality of life, as my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Hexham (Mr. Rippon) rightly said. In those respects, the Government can take convincing action, as anyone who travels north regularly on the A1 on a Friday knows. The main north-south road link, Newcastle airport and the east-coast railway are vital targets for high capital investment development. Every facility should be given to encourage investment to improve the overall quality of life. There are many examples of companies not coming to Tyneside, either because there is insufficient good quality housing or because the area appears to be run down. The Government's generous inner city aid has been of great benefit but more help is needed. The area must be made a showpiece to attract the best talent and expertise to new industries so that they thrive and generate wealth. Perhaps the most important seed from which the industry of tomorrow will grow is the talent and skill of the population. I am fortunate to have a highly rated university and an extremely successful polytechnic in my constituency. A few miles south is situated one of the country's most prestigious universities—Durham. Those three institutions of higher education have recognised the merit of especially close ties wih industry. That is a concept that the Government should encourage and develop further, so that the skills that are taught in the regions are not lost to the area for good. In that regard, nothing could be more short-sighted and dangerous to the long-term future of such regions than a contraction in education resources. The development of a science park in the north-east is a distinct possibility. It should be encouraged as an addition to the successful enterprise zone and the free port scheme, which are much appreciated initiatives that the Government have masterminded. Another prong of regional policy should be greater incentives in depressed areas for the development of new industries and new technologies. They are desperately needed in the north because of the inevitable decay of the older, heavy industries on which we have been so dependent. Just as it is right to allow 19th century industries to pass away naturally, so it is important to sponsor the development of alternatives for the 21st century. Government must play a role in that. The mechanism by which those processes can be encouraged in the regions is important. I ask the Government to take an early opportunity to review the unsatisfactory duplication of job creation and industrial aid efforts. They should consider creating a unified structure. In the north-east, many ideas have been mooted—a Minister for the north and a northern development agency are but two. Although each suggestion has merit, a more efficient answer lies in a type of ""super North of England Development Council"" with enhanced powers, greater resources and a wider remit. It should replace the activities of many of the smaller industrial development agencies or units. The Government should consider that possibility. If I have stressed the problems of my constituency, city and region, I had not intended to belittle the progress that has already been made on Tyneside. The Vickers Dreadnought project and NEI's overseas order book are signs of the tremendous potential on Tyneside. That potential is beginning to he tapped. Newcastle is a great city that has continued to thrive because of the vision of its civic leaders. Men such as the former Conservative leader, Councillor Arthur Grey, have given the necessary local leadership to establish a firm foundation for a prosperous future. I am honoured to represent part of one of Britain's great cities. I profoundly believe that the resurgence of industry in the north, the rebuilding of the region's wealth and the renaissance of its spirit will not spring simply from Government action or from London handouts. It will certainly not spring simply from industrial subsidies. It will and can come only from the people of the region. Therefore, we are discussing the creation and encouragement of individual effort, initiative and enterprise, their being sustained, and the creation of an attitude of mind and a new sense of purpose in the people of the region. Government can help in that process, especially by boosting the region's morale and self-confidence. I appeal to Ministers to take a major initiative to demonstrate that. Ultimately, the Government will not be judged on their success in rural areas of the south. The real test of their economic policies will be in the areas of real difficulty. The north-east provides an opportunity to demonstrate their willingness to face the challenge.
