gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to put on record in rising to speak in the House for the first time how much we regret   the departure of Mr. Geoffrey Wilson, who was greatly loved in this House and who made an enormous mark on all questions affecting the transport industry. I am proud to succeed him in the Truro division. The present Truro constituency, with 66,000 voters and one M.P., was a very different place in the days before the great Reform Bill of 1832. In those days there were five pocket and rotten boroughs, each of which had two M.P.s, giving 10 in all, embraced within the boundaries of the present constituency of Truro. As far as I am aware, that is a record for any modern constituency. In those days the 10 M.P.s were elected by 300 voters. In Truro they consisted of the mayor and 24 members of the corporation—they are still there—and throughout the 18th century almost without exception the two M.P.s were representatives of the family of my hon. Friend the present Member for Wells (Mr. Boscawen). The most distinguished representatives of the little village of Mitchell was the great Duke of Wellington, who embarked on his public life as the hon. Member for a Cornish constituency. Indeed, it could be said that the Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Mitchell. The little village of Grampound also had two M.P.s That was such a corrupt borough that even the pre-1832 unreformed House of Commons could not abide it, and it was disfranchised by Lord John Russell, whose family owned a lot of pocket and rotten boroughs. In the village of Tregony there were an unusually large number of voters, 150, and they returned two M.P.s This made corruption very much easier, though, of course, much more expensive. Every voter demanded £5 for each vote cast, and this meant that it cost about £750 to become an hon. Member for Tregony. The broker was the vicar of Tregony. In the Port of St. Mawes, which some hon. Members may have visited during their summer holidays, representation was handed from one person to the next entirely as if it were a piece of property. There was one gentleman who, when he died, left it to his widow. She remarried and handed it to her new husband. When the lady died the second husband re-  married, had a daughter and bequeathed the representation of the Port of St. Mawes to his son-in-law. In those days there were no inheritance taxes or death duties and the world was a much simpler place. However, I leave the financial problems of 1771 for those of 1971. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has produced what I believe to be a splendid Tory Budget in the classic style. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I thought that hon. Gentlemen opposite would agree with that. This Budget will be—indeed, it has already been—welcomed with great eagerness by my constituents in Cornwall. Much as I like the content of the Budget, I must admit a certain reluctance to accept one measure, which is the reduction in the rate of corporation tax from 42-1 per cent. to 40 per cent. I would have been happier if that money could have been used by his effecting immediately the alterations in the structure of corporation tax which he has promised. I would like to have seen an immediate reduction in the rate of tax on distributed profits to 35 per cent. accompanied by a tax on retained profits of 50 per cent. This figure would produce approximately the same result as a straight 40 per cent. tax on corporate profits. Eventually I would like to see the tax on distributed profits reduced from 35 per cent. to 25 per cent. The reason why the present tax system is morally wrong is that it is unfair to shareholders. First of all profits are taxed in the hands of the company. Next they are taxed in the hands of the shareholder. My hon. Friend the Financial Secretary paraded these arguments most adequately, but there was one point where I parted company from him. I hope it was a slip of the tongue when he referred to the ""servicing of dividends"". One does not service dividends. One services interest. Dividends belong to the people who own the company—something which, in the Conservative Party, cannot be too strongly repeated. The present tax system is not only morally wrong but economically inefficient. We must encourage companies not to retain their profits but to distribute them to their shareholders; otherwise we   are in danger of getting into the position which my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister has described as ""the survival of the fattest."" In the end, the shareholder knows best. The market has its disciplines, and shareholders are the best judges. They must be allowed to decide how best to use the dividends they receive from companies—whether to return them to those companies or find a better use for the money in other companies. However, even if it could be argued that this would have this effect on investment, I often wonder whether investment does, in fact, create economic growth. It is sometimes said that one should not change the structure of corporation tax because companies would stop investing. Perhaps it would be a good thing if they did stop. There is a clear correlation between investment and economic growth, but which comes first? It is argued that investment creates economic growth. I suspect that it is exactly the other way round and that it is the expectation of economic growth which induces businessmen to invest. A word about wealth. The Conservative Party should proclaim loud and clear that it is in favour of wealth—but not, I assure hon. Gentlemen opposite, the preservation of inherited wealth. I refer to the wealth which a man can accumulate within his lifetime. It should be possible for every Englishman to accumulate £100,000 within his own lifetime, if he has the energy and determination, and in the process he will enable his fellow citizens also to increase their wealth. It may astonish some hon. Members opposite to learn that I find it morally objectionable that in 1971 any man should inherit and acquire £100,000 purely by the accident of being someone else's son. I have seen no evidence to suggest that large lumps of money in the hands of a relatively small number of individuals do anything to increase the prosperity of the rest of the country. I know that it is argued that people seek to accumulate wealth in order to leave money to their descendants. Those who believe this are kidding themselves. In my experience, people seek to accumulate wealth not for their children or their  grandchildren but basically for themselves and possibly for their wives. To implement these provisions I would, first, abolish capital gains tax, because it is inefficient. As I understand it, in the eyes of hon. Members opposite the declared purpose of a capital gains tax is to redistribute existing wealth. In fact, it does not have this effect. All it does is to stop a man from getting from £1,000 up to £100,000. Second, we should replace estate duty with a system of inheritance taxes. Ideally, I should like a world in which every man could bequeath as much as he wished without penalty, but I must recognise the logic that every bequest involves an inheritance. I like bequests. I do not like inheritances. Therefore, I should like there to be a system in which the present high rate of tax was maintained in the case of a man leaving £100,000 to one individual, or possibly an even higher rate, but a very much lower rate of tax for someone who bequeaths £10,000 to each of 10 people, who may or may not be his children. I would also advocate a change so that a man's estate did not suffer inheritance taxes until his widow died. A final suggestion which I hope will commend itself to hon. Members opposite is that we must have a tax on gifts inter vivos that works. We all know that the redistributive purposes of the present estate duty system are largely invalidated by the absence of an effective gifts tax. Here again, I should like to see a gifts tax which was smaller in its impact if a man gave small sums to a large number of people than a large sum to one person, but I recognise that administrative problems may be involved in doing that.
