gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will bear with me and extend to me the indulgence which is usually afforded to an hon. Member making his maiden speech. I intervene in this debate to make a few, and only a few, observations on this very wide and important subject of industrial relations. While I admit that I do not possess the knowledge and experience of many hon. and right hon. Gentlemen in this House, I consider that, with the number of years which I have spent on the workshop floor, plus my years of experience as a union branch officer, I have at least a small idea of some of the problems with which the Trade Union movement and industrial relations generally in the nation are faced at present. I would say that, as a very keen member of a trade union who does not sit on the other side of the House, I hope it will not be thought controversial if I try to deal with one or two points which I think affect all trade unionists regardless of political party. I think it is very important that we should consider this whole problem in its proper context—in its industrial context, rather than in any other. Therefore, I maintain that, when we look at the problems in industrial relations, we trade unionists must certainly consider and reconsider some of the basic problems and be prepared to adapt ourselves to certain changed conditions. For instance, tactics which were employed by us in periods of under-employment cannot possibly operate in the same way in the periods of full employment like those which we have now enjoyed for a number of years. We have seen from recent strikes that action which has been taken by sections of trade unionists has resulted directly in short-time working and the dole for fellow-workers in either their own industry or in some other industry. We have seen such action cause hardship and higher costs to the consumer. A far more important thing which we must consider is the inevitable reduction in the possibility of enjoying full employment in the future. I maintain that, while we were probably justified in maintaining such tactics when there was under-employment and the employer had the whip hand, and we had to exert force to secure justice, we must now consider the changed position. Today the employer is also justified in arguing that the whip has changed hands. Everyone is aware that with power goes responsibility. We cannot divorce one from the other. If we are not prepared to use our responsibility properly then we are likely to lose our power in one of two ways. Either we shall lose it through public opinion becoming so aroused that action will have to be taken against us; or we shall find that we are suffering unemployment because by the actions taken by ourselves we are pricing ourselves out of world markets. That is something to which we as trade unionists have to address ourselves. With many other people, I feel that the General Council of the Trades Union Congress has done a splendid job and is continuing to do a splendid job in intervening where problems are proving insurmountable, particularly in inter-union disputes or disputes between members and their union executive. But it has got to go further even than it is going, particularly on the question of inter-union disputes. It is morally wrong that industry and the consumer should suffer because, as trade unionists, we forget the basic principle of our common brotherhood. That is what is happening in many cases. We must discharge our responsibility, because if we do not we are going to have the power taken away from us in one way or the other. One of the biggest problems facing us, particularly during this period of full employment, is the fact that there are not enough members of trade unions who are trade unionists. There are far too many members of trade unions who are purely card members. They do not know what their trade union is aiming at, and they tend to adopt a completely selfish attitude and take action which is not in the interests either of the members of their own industry or, in the long run, their own interests, because it reacts against them. Naturally these card members do not attend branch meetings, and they make it possible for a very small number—it is a very small number, though some people tend to enlarge it—of people to use the Trade Union movement for their own questionable purposes, which are definitely not in the interests of the movement as a whole. We who are members of trade unions and who understand what trade unionism stands for have a great deal to do in educating our fellow members as to what we are aiming at and where we want to go. Some will say that our basic problems result from a change in Government. But I would remind hon. and right hon. Gentlemen that these problems are not new. They have been with us since the end of the war, and if we do not tackle them realistically we shall be justly accused of trying to find excuses for not doing the job which is ours and ours alone. As a movement we ourselves are responsible for some of the problems facing us. For instance, the wage differential problem affects us not only in the railway industry but in many other industries, and it has been aggravated to a large extent by applying for all-round increases of pay, regardless of the skill and efficiency of particular sections of an industry. By these applications we make the burden far worse. It is important that we should understand exactly what the true position is. Inter-union disputes would not have happened if we had paid more attention and taken firmer action on the question of poaching, which we have ignored for many years. We have also ignored the tendency of some organisations to force through sole negotiating rights against the interests of others. Here are two problems on which we should have taken action, because had we done so earlier some of the consequences would never have arisen. Trade unions, the machinery for trades disputes, and so on, are with us to stay. There is no doubt whatsoever about that. We have established machinery now whereby both sides of industry, through proper negotiations, can sustain themselves and this nation at a higher standard of life. But we can be far more effective in the common interests if we are prepared, as a very powerful body—and let us make no mistake about that—to, face up to our responsibilities and if we are prepared to make the necessary changes not only in our organisations but in our basic thinking.
