gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is almost impossible to be completely obedient to that happy convention of this House which requires that one should be non-controversial in one's maiden effort  and, at the same time, to participate in the Debate on this Bill. I can only hope that amidst the grim growlings of the great cannons in front of us, the small arms section behind will be forgiven any indiscretions they may commit. It was said by the acting Leader of the Opposition yesterday that the presentation of this Bill was unworthy of the hour. I suggest to hon. Members opposite that the approach they have made to this subject has been unworthy also. I believe it was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler) who, in recent days, stated his opinion that the introduction of this Bill was naked power politics. Consequent upon that, various statements have been made from the Opposition benches from which we may deduce that it is a generally held opinion on the other side of the House that the Government are ruthlessly imposing upon the nation legislation for which there is neither general desire nor justification. Perhaps more important, it is alleged that the Government are seeking to use their great majority on these benches to obtain a sordid and unworthy benefit for their own Party needs, that they are seeking to obtain in this sordid fashion, the financial gain of their own Party, and are unmindful of those broad principles by which conscience and individual liberty are safeguarded. It is to me, as a trade unionist, a tragedy that the approach of the Opposition to this subject should have been couched in such harsh terms. I feel that in view of the relationships that have grown up during the last 15 or 20 years, in view of the different flow of forces that has operated during that period, we might have expected, especially from certain Members of the Opposition, a more understanding approach to this problem. I have no hesitation in saying that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden is held in great respect by many on this side of the House. We had hoped, we believed in fact, that when this problem came to be considered, he would have had influence upon those from whom we expect very little, and we hoped there would be no repetition of the acrimony and bitterness of the atmosphere in which the 1927 Debate was conducted.
