gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I compliment the hon. Member for Anglesey (Mr. Best) on his speech. If he can speak like that at such length with little voice, there will be many late-night sittings in the future. On the first occasion that I spoke, I addressed myself with the same pride as you did, Mr. Speaker, when you were elected to preside over these intricate proceedings. You enjoyed the unanimous support of all Members of Parliament. I am sure you fully appreciated that some of us were prouder than others. I refer especially to the Welsh Members of Parliament who witnessed and participated in your election. You, Mr. Speaker, and I share something that is unique. We are both Rhondda Valley born, sons of miners, and justly proud of our heritage. It is most regrettable that some of our nearest relatives did not live to share these proud moments, especially your mother and my parents and dear sister. You, Mr. Speaker, have already made a substantial contribution to the history of this country. Against that background, it is with trepidation and sincerity of purpose that I am privileged to represent Ogmore. Having lived and worked there for 12 years, I am alive to the problems of the   area. Most of them stem from a lack of concern by the previous mine owners, who exploited the area to the fullest degree. They were responsible for the dereliction and environmental rape that was well known throughout the mining valleys of Wales. I am sure that Parliament and our people would never tolerate that again. I am, nevertheless, pleased to state that Ogmore, like many other mining valleys in Wales over the past decade, has benefited from the degree of concern and drive to clean up our communities and improve our environment. I sincerely hope that this will continue with the present Government and that there will be no cuts in land reclamation schemes. When elected to serve as Member of Parliament for Ogmore, I fully appreciated the extent of my responsibilities, especially having to succeed the very high calibre of representation provided by Walter Padley, John Evans, Vernon Hartshorn and many others. I can only pray that I shall be able to maintain their standards and give the constituents the representation that they deserve. I am fortunate, Mr. Speaker, to have inherited a constituency with a sound industrial base, brought about over a number of years by the policies of regional development, and in particular the extension of the M4 to Pencoed. Here I pay special tribute to the untiring efforts of my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Aberavon (Mr. Morris). It was through his efforts and those of the Welsh Development Agency that we were able to get the Ford factory in Bridgend and the Rockwool factory at Pencoed. There has also been the investment at Port Talbot steelworks and the extensive assistance afforded to industrial development generally. I therefore view with great reservation the Government's statements made during the debate on the Queen's Speech. I hope that the Secretary of State for Wales will give me assurances that there will be no reductions or cuts in these developments, and that, to enable the local authorities to continue their extension of services to cover a growth area, there will be no cuts in public expenditure in Ogmore. My worry over the last few days on the whole question of public expenditure  cuts is related to the promised development of a new hospital in Bridgend. The proposed commencement date is 1980. It would be a great relief to be assured that the axe will not fall on this development, and, indeed, that an earlier starting date will be announced. The right hon. Gentleman will also appreciate that, with a growth area of the magnitude envisaged in Bridgend, adequate schools, health care, houses and leisure services are essential to meet the growing needs of the population. Some 3,000 to 4,000 of my constituents work at Port Talbot steelworks. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will also be able to assure me that he will consider an extension of financial investment there. I review the past few weeks, Mr. Speaker, as a nightmare. First, as a new Member, I have been struggling to master the complexities of this House, to find my way around the corridors with letters and papers under my arm, and with no desk on which to work. Next, we have been presented with a Queen's Speech that will cause unrest and upheaval worse than I had ever anticipated. It is regrettable that Wales, too, must suffer the effects, when the people of Wales kept faith with Labour and gave the Labour Party 47·9 per cent. of their votes, electing 21 Labour Members, compared with 32·8 per cent. of the votes to the Conservatives and 11 Conservative Members elected. Thus, despite the referendum result, we might still have benefited had we accepted the need for a Welsh Assembly. I hope that the Government will also give early consideration to the review of local government reorganisation and to some form of regional government, which I believe is essential to Wales in particular and to the country in general. The past few days and the debate on the Queen's Speech, together with certain reservations expressed, might allow me to wake up from this horrible nightmare and find that we are still to be a united nation, that we shall not make the same mistakes as we made in the past, that we are not embarking on confrontation and that we shall see the implementation of a commitment in the Conservative   Government manifesto. Page 9 of that document reads: A strong and responsible trade union movement could play a big part in our economic recovery. We cannot go on, year after year, tearing ourselves apart in increasingly bitter and calamitous industrial disputes. In bringing about economic recovery, we should all be on the same side. Government and public, management and unions, employers and employees, all have a common interest in raising productivity and profits, thus increasing investment and employment, and improving real living standards for everyone."". Having listened to the words of the Prime Minister yesterday, when she said ""I am not confronting anyone. I hope they will not confront me"", I sincerely hope that the acoustics of the House distorted the tone of her voice. It surely was not in keeping with the commitment that I have just quoted from her party's manifesto. I am attempting to be non-controversial in my maiden speech and have highlighted only the topics which need urgent answers. There are other matters that require attention, such as tax relief on widows' pensions and on the cost of travel to work, leasehold reform, and many others which must be left for a future occasion. I think that it is fitting and proper that a miner's son, representing a constituency with mining interests, should say a word or two on the subject of colliery closures. In my constituency there are five collieries. Recently one was closed and the staff transferred to a nearby colliery. I often wonder what amount of coal is left in the ground when a colliery is closed. For economic reasons, and considering the escalating price of petrol, I wonder whether our energy policy should be reorganised so that we can save some for future generations. I ask for a firm assurance that there will be no further colliery closures until supplies are completely exhausted. In conclusion, I promise the House that my future contributions will be based on my belief in social justice and an egalitarian society, and my firmly held conviction that a humanitarian approach must be made to solve our problems with emphasis on need and not greed.
