gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech today. As far as I can judge, it is almost 10 years to the day since I first made a maiden speech from a political platform. I did so on behalf of a friend who was fighting a constituency in Cornwall. He was unsuccessful and I trust that his failure was not because of my help. I only hope that I achieve more success in my efforts here today. I suspect that I share with other hon. Members a very high regard for our constituencies. Bristol, North-East is a relatively new constituency. Its boundaries were fixed in 1950, when extensive boundary changes came into effect. Since that time it has been held successively by Mr. William Coldrick, until 1959, and then until 1966 by my immediate predecessor, Mr. Alan Hopkins. It is customary to pay tribute to one's predecessor, and that I gladly do. Mr. Hopkins and I fought each other twice and each has had the distinction of winning once. I hope that hon. Members will forgive me if I say that, if Mr. Hopkins is selected again for the seat, I hope that I shall win the rubber two to one. Whether I do or not, I can be sure of one thing: we shall have a good clean fight, always discussing politics and never personalities and always presenting our party policies to the electorate in as honest and fair a way as we are able. Our elections in Bristol, North-East have been a model of Parliamentary democracy and I hope that I have the pleasure of fighting a candidate to whom democracy means something real, as I know it does to Mr. Hopkins. It is an honour to represent any constituency, but to me it is great honour to represent one in the noble and ancient City of Bristol, which has nearly 1,000 years of history behind it already and which has played its part in times gone by in most of the major events in England's history. At one time, Bristol was the site of a Roman mint, at another a port from which voyages of exploration, discovery   and trade were made. It became a centre, for almost a century, of world fashion and its citizens welcomed the preachings of John Wesley and John Whitfield. The first Methodist chapel was established there, as was the first theatre. It was the first to see a printed newspaper outside London and was the first city to receive a charter which, in 1373, granted it separate county status. One thing is clear to any student of Bristol's history. It is that the port has been vital to its development. When, during the eighteenth century, the port was neglected, Bristol suffered, and when the pattern was repeated in the middle of the nineteenth century Bristol's trade and citizens suffered again. Therefore, hon. Members can appreciate my concern, shared with other Bristol Members, for the urgent need for the construction of the new port at Portbury. I hope that we shall have a satisfactory decision on Portbury very soon. Between the wars, Bristol suffered in the country's economic depression and in my constituency is a reminder of those days. An artificial lake in Eastfield Park was on the list of public works which Ernest Bevin was pressing the city to build with the unemployed labour at that time. Since the war, Bristol has expanded its industrial strength. It has not committed the industrial error of having a few large industries only. Rather it has appreciated and embraced the need for industrial diversification and it has gone further than that in that it has hidden its industrial strength so cleverly that it remains not only a rich and active city industrially, but also very beautiful. Perhaps Bristol's most significant contribution since the war has been its determination to look after those citizens who need care and attention. It has developed its social and welfare services very substantially. Bristol has proceeded apace with slum clearance and rebuilding schemes and the number waiting for houses is smaller than in any city of a comparable size, while homes for the aged, clubs for the young, hobbies, sports and recreational activities are thriving. In short, a community spirit has been fostered which might well have been patterned on the days when the city's present 260,000 acres were a dozen separate  villages. I never enter the City of Bristol without a feeling of pride for it and, coupled with that, a determination to do my best for it for as many years as I can. Perhaps I can begin to try to do something today. There are three points about the Bill which I wish to make. I welcome the Bill generally and in one respect I am delighted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has been able to meet the problems of church organisations and charities. On 25th May, my right hon. Friend said that there were about 100,000 charities in this country. I am not surprised—there are more than 500 of them in Bristol alone. I visited one of them the other day, St. Christopher's School, which is unique in the range and age of the handicapped children which it accepts. It is a residential charity. It has 130 children aged between 7 and 17. It accepts children who, due to single or multiple disabilities together with general backwardness, are unable to find places in any other educational establishment. There is a long waiting list. With a staff of 80, St. Christopher's work would have been badly handicapped by the Selective Employment Tax. Other churches and charities would have been in a similar difficult financial position, so I very much welcome Clause 5. I have two other points to make, one important, although comparatively minor, and the other rather more substantial. Order XXIII, the Miscellaneous Services group, lists sports and other recreations which must make payments under the Bill. Gloucestershire County Cricket Club ground is in my constituency and the club will be hard pressed by the new tax. Last season, the club suffered a loss of £7,500 and its total indebtness to the bank is more than £25,000. As the Bill now stands, the tax will add about £1,500 to that each year. I should like my right hon. Friend to consider amending the Bill so that the club could avoid payment of the tax. After all, it can hardly serve as a reservoir of staff which could usefully be employed in manufacturing. It is a small employer. In addition, in the main, county cricket clubs are non-profit-making, as the figures I have just given   probably show. I am sure that Gloucestershire will not be the only club to be seriously affected by the new tax. I can add an emotional appeal as well. Gloucestershire is, of course, the club from which came three famous England cricketers—Grace, Jessop and Hammond. Dr. Grace lived in my constituency, in Downend, and the local authority there, Mangotsfield Urban District Council, is negotiating to purchase the house as a memorial or museum to his memory. I therefore ask my right hon. Friend to seek to allow the cricket clubs to avoid the tax which was designed for totally different purposes and which could end the rather famous game which we have been playing in this country for so long. Finally, I ask whether Order XVII could be put into Clause 1 or into Clause 2. Order XVII covers the construction industry as a whole. Housing, roads, hospital buildings, are but three of the many types of buildings which will be directly affected by the tax. I understood that the Government had housing as their first priority. The tax is bound to affect that in price or in other ways. For instance, a manufacturer of concrete blocks gets the premium, but the builder, perhaps a small builder, who makes his own, pays the tax. Similarly, the builder who has his own joinery section pays the tax, while the joinery manufacturer is eligible for the premium. There are many other examples, and I ask the Minister again to consider whether Order XVII could be included in either Clause 1 or Clause 2. It would be more logical to include building in manufacturing industries rather than to leave it classed broadly as a service industry.
