gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Like the hon. Member for Conway (Mr. P. Thomas), I face the ordeal of making my first essay at addressing this House. I have been advised by persons having more knowledge of these matters than myself that on such an occasion one should endeavour to have a sense of diffidence and a certain amount of awe and also should try to avoid the more blatant form of controversy. It is not necessary for me to simulate either the diffidence or the awe, and I shall, to the best of my ability, endeavour to avoid the rather dangerous pits of controversy. One can thank both this Government and the Labour Governments which preceded them for the valuable advance which has been made over the field of devolution of government in Wales including, I believe, the county of Monmouthshire. We can thank the Labour Governments for instituting the Council for Wales which, despite its apparent limitations, is epoch making. While it has in justice been observed that it is purely an advisory body, I venture to suggest that, as an advisory body, it is unique in so far as it is the advisory council of the whole nation. With respect, I implore the Minister and also the Chairman of that body to study the possibility of having some of its deliberations in public. One recognises the desirability of having certain sessions in secret, but it seems to me that while the deliberations and discussions of this House and similar assemblies all over the world of great importance are in public, there should be no deterrent in the ideal of having some of the deliberations of this Council for Wales also in public. A healthy spirit of publicity may surely benefit its counsels. We can, too, with justice thank the present Government for following that most valuable inauguration of the Council for Wales with the supplemental appointment of a Minister specially charged with responsibility for Welsh affairs and, indeed, an Under-Secretary enjoying a peculiar responsibility for those affairs. In the Principality, we are not, as it were, an extra English county. Recently, a Lancastrian friend of mine said to me, ""If you have a day for Welsh affairs we should have a day for Lancashire affairs, because we have more Members of Parliament than you."" That obscures the fact that, by and large, we are definitely a different kind of people. Whether we speak Welsh or not, whether we speak it fluently or badly, I suggest that we are a different kind of people. Had anybody doubting my Welsh-ness observed me at recent Rugby football internationals and noted my peculiar behaviour when Wates scored, he would no longer have had doubt about my nationality. It may be that in the past we, as Welsh representatives have been somewhat lacking in that ability to bring pressure on the Government of the day in which the  Scots excel. I hope the Minister will not misunderstand me when I say that I think collectively we can make greater nuisances of ourselves. Welsh people tend to be somewhat reticent and, as the hon. Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. G. Thomas) observed, falsely modest on some occasions. The right hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies), advanced the suggestion that Wales should have its own Parliament. He, like the hon. Member for Caernarvon (Mr. G. Roberts), very properly stressed the need for greater devolution of Government within these islands. Many of us feel that such devolution within these islands must come, and I think it is a notable step forward that the present Government have added to the power of the Scottish Office. I sincerely hope that after the present experiment of a Minister charged with responsibility for Wales has been demonstrated as effective we, too, may move forward to a Welsh Office with a Welsh secretariat. Wales has a larger population than New Zealand, and it is manifestly quite a sizable and important community on its own. With regard to the field of agriculture, I ask the Minister to note, as undoubtedly he has done already, that in Wales we have, by and large, a greater proportion of marginal and difficult land than in the whole of the British Isles. In industry, of course, our development has been unbalanced. Even today it is obvious that we are faced with the possibility that, dependent as we are in general on the major industries of coal, iron, and steel, and in view of the present crucial financial position of this country, these light industries may be insufficient to maintain that balanced form of industry which our country needs. I sincerely hope the Minister will take that into consideration when considering what policy to adopt in order to maintain alternative forms of employment, particularly in those areas where the various Trading estates have been established in recent years and were established immediately before the war. Thanks to successive Governments—the National Government immediately prior to the war, the war-time Coalition Government and the Labour Governments which followed—we have those trading estates in various parts of South Wales. It is important that the industries started there and in   the Remploy factories should be sustained, even though their sustenance may for a short time be an artificial prop. In the field of transport—and many hon. Members have stressed the need for an efficient transport system—I think it fair to say that a great debt is due to the Minister of Transport in the last Labour Government and to the present Minister, and, indeed, to the permanent officials of the Ministry of Transport, for the excellent condition of the main trunk road from Chepstow as far west as Swansea, and, indeed, beyond. That, by and large, is an excellent road, but the traveller who leaves South Wales on his way to the West of England arrives at a bridge in Chepstow which is a major obstacle to further progress. From there to the City of Gloucester we have a very secondary highway indeed. I trust that the Minister will examine the possibility of giving high priority to the extension of the road. The highway between Newport and Chepstow to the West of England and the Midlands is one of first magnitude. The road from Newport to the West is indeed excellent and deserves a better extension. The great scheme for completing the bridge over the river at Neath is also something which will be a most valuable addition to the transport system of South Wales and will do much to benefit industry, the Margam steel works, the town of Swansea and the surrounds. I trust the Minister will realise that Wales needs good transport facilities and good roads more between South Wales and the Midlands than between South and North Wales because the ports and cities of South Wales and the Midland cities are largely interdependent. Much of the products of industry which do not now, unfortunately, pass through the ports of South Wales, could, I believe, be attracted there if communications were better. I sincerely hope that industrialists will realise what splendid facilities there are in some of the South Wales ports. What is more, the record of their dock workers is unparalleled in the whole country. There have been fewer strikes in the Welsh ports than in practically all the other ports in the country. Surely, shippers and importers must have some regard to that fact when deciding what ports they shall use. These ports have hitherto been dependent upon the export of coal, and they need other traffic. At  one time my own constituency of Barry was probably the greatest of all coal exporting ports in the world, but today its export of coal is a mere trickle. The resuscitation of these ports should be a high priority for the examination of any Minister charged with the responsibility for Welsh affairs. Finally, I would, with diffidence, mention one other consideration. I am told that as at present constituted the South Wales Electricity Board has no agriculturist on it at all. There is a strong desire that one should be represented on it because the western part of Wales—and I apologise to any hon. Members representing constituencies there for mentioning it—is singularly inadequately supplied with electricity. It seems to those who know that part of the country that great benefit would accrue to it if an agriculturist could be added to the strength of that Board. I thank the House for its indulgence and for the attention it has paid to me in my ordeal of addressing it for the first time, and I also thank you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for enabling me to do so.
