gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity of making my maiden speech in this Debate on transport. Probably many hon. Members have long forgotten when they made their maiden speeches. If so, I hope they will not forget to give me the indulgence I so badly need tonight. I am very proud indeed to have been elected to this House by the constituents of Heston and Isleworth. It is a borough which is very deeply concerned with the problems that face the British Transport Commission. Heston and Isleworth is a borough which is not known to a large number of Londoners, partly because a great part of it is better known to the public as Hounslow and partly because up to 1945, for Parliamentary purposes, is was attached to Twickenham. The late Member for the borough in the last Parliament began the good work of trying to put it on the map. I hope to try to continue that good work. Heston and Isleworth are two ancient parishes. They have had an interest in transport ever since the days when passenger and freight transport were seriously interrupted by Dick Turpin on Hounslow Heath. Today the people of Heston and Isleworth are still concerned about transport because a very large part of the borough is residential and large numbers of its inhabitants travel to other parts of London for their daily work. There is also a large number of factories in the borough, particularly on the Great West Road, which rely on transport to bring in their raw materials and to get their manufactured goods away. My constituents are very much hoping that the Minister will not become a 20th century Dick Turpin who removes from their pockets inordinate amounts of money for the privilege of travelling to and from the borough. They are deeply concerned over the prospects of integration and the proposed increase in transport charges in London. In accordance with the custom of the House, I must disclose to the Committee that I am the secretary of the National Tyre Distributors' Association, and I have had some close contact with certain parts of the Road Haulage Executive. In speaking of road haulage tonight, I am not here to be controversial or to make things difficult for the Executive. I want  to try to be constructive. I assure the Committee that I am as anxious as they are to see that the Executive is a successful and profitable undertaking under the British Transport Commission. The livelihood of everybody in this country depends upon it. It is not to our advantage to make matters more difficult for the Road Haulage Executive or to prevent it from working efficiently. I am frightened when I listen to this proposed scheme of integration which has been referred to by hon. Members on both sides of the Committee. I am frightened that the proposed scheme will militate against the efficiency of the Road Haulage Executive. I hope that the British Transport Commission will not proceed on the assumption that road transport—whether of goods or passengers, whether private or State owned—must be restricted or made less attractive if the Commission are to provide an adequate and properly integrated system of public transport, as they are required to do by the Act. Such an assumption would disregard the basic principles which must be carried out if a national transport system is to operate for the long-term benefit of the country as a whole. These principles have been enumerated many times in many places, and more recently by the International Chamber of Commerce in a report prepared at the request of United Nations. One of these principles is that a user should enjoy unrestricted freedom of choice among means of transport, including the running of his own vehicles. Another is—and here I quote from the report—that: nothing should be done which would hinder the development of any particular form of transport or disguise the advantages it could offer""— or— which would discourage its use in order to provide artificial support or any alternative form of transport. It is clear, whether we like it or not, that a scheme of integration in a very short time would hit the small man. I should like to say a few words about the passenger-carrying side of the business Surely, eventually, integration would mean an increase in the fares charged by long-distance coaches. That must happen eventually. If it did, it would be bound to hit the small man   who relies upon coaches to get him to the place where he wants to go on holiday. Very often the cheapness of the fare to the place where he wants to go is a determining factor in deciding whether or not he can take a holiday: it certainly is a prime factor in deciding where he can take a holiday. I think it was G. K. Chesterton who said, ""When you go on holiday always go as far away from home as possible, because it does you more good to have a complete change."" But if prices are increased for seats, either in trains or coaches, many small men will either be unable to go away at all or will have to restrict their travel. I am a firm believer in the principles enunciated this afternoon by the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. P. Thorneycroft), who said that if we want to get people to fill up the seats on the trains we should make the trains attractive to them and sell the tickets at attractive prices. In my constituency there is a large factory which sells cosmetics, soaps, lipsticks, face powders and other articles of that kind. On the face of it, there may appear to be no connection whatever between lipstick and seats in railway trains; but there is one connection, and it is that to persuade people to take seats on trains we must attract them there just in the same way as this firm has to try to persuade people to buy the lipsticks, soaps or face powders. I was interested to discover a short time ago that, in order to sell its commodities, this firm maintains a large organisation which does nothing but assess the potential demand of the consumer. It has a staff of investigators who visit some 2,000 housewives regularly every month to whom a small fee is paid for disclosing how they spend every penny of their income. These investigators discover how much money is left in the pocket of the housewife after she has paid for all the necessities of life. They assess how much is left over, and they price the articles which they manufacture accordingly. If they find that the amount of money left over has decreased considerably, then they alter their production schedule. They reduce the size of the commodities they sell and cut down the frilly packaging to make them cheaper so that the  housewives can buy them. If we put up the prices of railway or coach tickets we shall find that people cannot afford to buy them, and the losses will simply accumulate. On the same principle, I ask the Minister to consider this matter and to ensure that railway tickets are sold at prices which people can afford to pay because, unless they are sold at those prices, the whole scheme of integration must become sheer nonsense. On the question of the Road Haulage Executive, in which I am particularly interested, I think that they have carried out a very difficult task with, by and large, good sense and with a standard of efficiency which is as good as that of any other nationalised undertaking. There is no doubt that they have had a most difficult job. The progress to date is as satisfactory as it could be, but it must be remembered that the effects of nationalising the road haulage industry have not yet been felt. They have begun to be felt, but not fully, because when an undertaking is taken over from private enterprise it continues as it was running before for the first few months. It is only after a few months that the Executive begin to take over control. We have heard the statistics from the Minister. Approximately 3,000 undertakings have been taken over. Some have been compulsorily acquired and some have been acquired voluntarily. The total number of vehicles concerned is about 40,000. As control tightens on the undertakings, it is fair to ask whether efficiency is increasing and whether confidence is increasing in the minds of the people who use these lorries. The Minister has been good enough to give details about the number of ""C"" licence holders. He said that 675,000 vehicles are working under ""C"" licences, but it is only fair to point out that in 1938, 365,000 vehicles operated under ""C"" licences; that by 1946 the figure was still only 383,000; but that between 1946 and November, 1949, the number leaped from 383,000 to 675,000. It is reasonable to ask whether that great increase has come about because there is any lack of confidence on the part of the traders of the country in the nationalised undertakings. If they had great faith in the Road Haulage Executive, surely they would have been content to use the Executive's vehicles. My experience of industrialists is that if they have sunk their money in the production of a certain commodity, they want to use all their available capital on production. They do not want to spend money in buying a lot of vehicles which take up space, require extra staff and cause worry. If they can have their goods carried expeditiously at a cheap rate, they will far sooner use somebody else's lorries, no matter to whom they belong. Despite what has been said by hon. Members opposite, industrialists, who are always out to make profits wherever they can, are not concerned whether the vehicles they use are owned by His Majesty's Government or by some private haulier. All they want is the cheapest, the quickest and the best service they can get. It is an inescapable fact that it is not very difficult or complicated for a haulage concern—whether it be run by the State or a private person—to carry somebody else's goods. It is not complicated or difficult if the haulier has been in the business all his life. No doubt, it would be most difficult for hon. Members of this House. I would find it difficult, because I have not been in the business all my life, but to someone with experience who owns 10, 20, 50 or 100 lorries it is not very difficult to arrange matters so that the lorries travel with full loads for most of the time. It is not very difficult to make a profit. All it requires is individual attention, some prompt decisions and quick action, all of which one can provide if one has had the experience. There is no reason why the Road Haulage Executive should not be just as good as private hauliers in those respects. But it is pertinent to ask whether there is the machinery and the organisation for giving just those very things that go to make a successful road haulage undertaking. I should like to quote some facts and figures about the Road Haulage Executive. The 3,000 undertakings which were taken over from the private hauliers are now organised in 2,500 depots. I have no quarrel with that. To reduce 3,000 undertakings to 2,500 is a reasonable thing to do, but the question I ask is what power has the manager in charge at each of those depots? I suspect that he has very little power, because those 2,500 depots are organised into 300 groups. It is then pertinent to ask what power has  the man in charge of one of the groups; he cannot have very much because those groups are organised into 31 districts. I do not know what power the men in the 31 districts have because, above them, are eight divisions, and above them are the Road Haulage Executive's headquarters. There are five levels without taking into account the British Transport Commission, who give decisions on matters of policy relating to road haulage very much, of course, at a high level. There are six layers of authority altogether, and there are five layers above every lorry. I wonder whether that is the best sort of set-up for giving just those three ingredients which I say are necessary for the running of an undertaking. It is a fact that, at any rate in the Road Haulage Executive headquarters and the divisions, there is the accountancy department, the engineers' department. the staff and welfare departments, the surveyor's department, the traffic officer's department, the public relations department, and maybe several other departments as well. They are duplicated at divisions, possibly triplicated at districts, and, for all I know, quintuplicated right down at the depots. It is also interesting to look at one or two figures in regard to the staffing of the Road Haulage Executive. I am not saying that the staff is either too great or too small, but I suggest there are some figures which the Minister might usefully look at, because I can assure him that I want to see the Road Haulage Executive making a profit and running efficiently. Our export trade depends on that. The facts are that in the Road Haulage Executive there are 68,500 persons. Of that figure, 45,500 are engaged on the operating side. Again, I have no quarrel with that figure; I merely point out that it includes 2,800 supervisors and traffic clerks—about 1,400 of each. There are, in addition to the operating staff, the maintenance staff which total 8,500, including about 500 supervisors, giving a total figure which strikes me as being very reasonable for the driving, loading and maintaining of 40,000 vehicles. But I wonder a bit when I look at the administrative staff which, according to the transport statistics for the four-week period ended 29th January this year, total 10,649. That means one administrator for every   five operators and maintenance men. I suppose those 10,500 odd are distributed over the various layers. That may or may not be the right figure, but it seems rather a large one to me and the Minister may feel inclined to look into it. If he does not feel inclined to look into that figure, I should be grateful if he would look at the bottom of the table, where, under the word ""Miscellaneous,"" there appears the figure of 3,441. I do not know what that represents. Perhaps it is justified, but it seems a very large number for people who cannot be classified as porters, clerks, maintenance men, stable men, administrators or anything else. That figure of 3,441 is exceptionally large when one sees on the previous page that British Railways have only a miscellaneous staff of 10,500 out of a total staff of 623,000. There seem to be approximately 10 times as many miscellaneous staff on the Road Haulage Executive as on British Railways. However, I leave those figures to the Minister to do with them what he likes. I do not feel that attempts at becoming self-contained, which I think is the eventual object of the Road Haulage Executive, will always save money. The motor trade in this country is very large and widespread, and very experienced. It has a great range of facilities which are always available in almost every town and village in the country. On page 131 of the last full Report of the British Transport Commission it says that, in the initial stages, instructions were given to the companies taken over to continue to order from the same suppliers as in the past unless there was some particular reason for changing which, of course, had then to be reported to the Road Haulage Executive headquarters. The report makes it clear that eventually there will have to be lists of approved suppliers in some things so that bulk prices can he negotiated by the headquarters. I do not quarrel with that as a principle, but I suggest that full use should he made of the facilities which can be offered by private enterprise in different parts of the country. I particularly draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that this tendency to become self-contained and to use only the Road Haulage Executive facilities does mean that, in some cases, lorries have to go several miles out of their way in  order to get petrol instead of using, perhaps, a petrol pump already on the route. It is a fact that on the London-Glasgow run there are only six British Transport Commission filling stations, and that is not many for a long run. It means that if a lorry is coming into London and gets to about Dunstable and wants to fill up, it has to go eight miles out of its way to Luton in order to get the petrol, and eight miles back to get on to the main road again. If it is only doing six or eight miles to the gallon, it seems absurd to use two gallons in order to fill up. The same sort of thing applies in other ways. There is one further point I want to stress very strongly, and it is that if the Road Haulage Executive is to work efficiently and is to give the best services which the traders need, it is absolutely essential that its staff at the lower levels should be contented. There is much evidence at the moment that the drivers, upon whom so much depends, are not as contented as they were. I do not want to be controversial, but I hope that hon. Members opposite will not mind my saying that before nationalisation there were some good private employers. I particularly direct the attention of the Minister to a recent letter in one of the transport magazines. It was written by a driver who said that under the private firm for which he worked before it was taken over by the State he had a guaranteed week of 61 hours, he received £1 a fortnight for clear signatures on receipt notes, he had £10 per annum no-accident bonus, and three weeks' full pay while sick in any one year. This opportunity of earning extra money through working long hours is something which the men now miss because, under the present regime, this particular driver says that he has a 44-hour week, no bonuses of any sort, and receives no sick pay. I am sorry about that, because I live about 30 miles out of London and am continually travelling by car on a main arterial road. I can testify to the fact that the long-distance lorry drivers of this country are among the most considerate and courteous and safe drivers on the roads. They are a magnificent set of men, and private enterprise has given them the incentives to be proficient and courteous. I hope that the Road Haulage Executive will maintain that tradition, because we shall all suffer if this grand body   of men becomes discontented. It is also a fact that, in the old days, when a driver had delivered his load he had the opportunity—he was encouraged—to look around to try to get another load to bring back in the lorry. Now he has to report to the local depot, and wait about many hours, from which he may return with an unremunerative load, or else without one at all. I should like to say one word about the question of compensation, and put in a word for those hauliers who have not yet received compensation for the undertakings which they have lost. It would be interesting if the Minister could tell us how many of the undertakings have been acquired compulsorily and how many voluntarily, and how much money has been spent on the compulsory acquisitions. I believe it is a fact that in no case of compulsory acquisition has there been a final settlement. This is causing undoubted hardship. In conclusion, let me assure the House that I am only too anxious to see this great industry become efficient, and give the country the service it so badly needs.
