gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to take part in what I regard as the most important economic debate of the year. I start my maiden speech by complimenting the hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Alexander) on the way in which he addressed the House and on the comments he made about VAT and other matters with which I am sure many of my hon. Friends on the Opposition Benches will agree. I follow, in my constituency of Wood Green, in the London borough of Haringey, a Member who sat in this House for that constituency for 25 years, Mrs. Joyce Butler, who I believe was greatly liked on both sides of the House for the way in which she conducted herself both as a constituency Member of Parliament and as a Chairman of many of the important Standing Committees of this House. One of the important parts of   my tribute to her is to say that when I was canvassing during the general election at Wood Green I did not come across a single person who was critical of Joyce Butler's record as a constituency Member. I regard that as a very good record after 25 years representing one constituency, and I know that that view will be shared by many right hon. and hon. Members. Joyce Butler was active in the fight for consumer rights and in the fight to enable women to participate effectively in the National Health Service and to ensure that part of the National Health Service budget was given over exclusively to their needs and problems. This is an issue to which I hope to return over the next few months. It was my wish to speak in this debate because the problems which my constituency faces are not problems related to any single employer. Wood Green does not have one large factory or a number of coal mines employing a large number of workers who live in the constituency. It depends in large part for its economic prosperity on the general economic and budgetary strategy of the Government in power. Therefore, when I speak this evening about the Budget and the global economic objectives which the Government have set themselves, I do so in the knowledge that Wood Green will be very much affected in that way. One of the major aspects of the Budget is, of course, the plan to attack public expenditure and deliberately to transfer resources from the public to the private sector. Plainly this is a policy which will affect my constituency very badly, and in this context I mention two issues of particular concern. First, there is concern about the continued availability of the accident and emergency facilities at our local hospitals and, in particular, at the Prince of Wales hospital in Tottenham, whose catchment area includes the whole of my constituency. That accident and emergency unit is already under threat from the area and regional health authorities, and I believe that the policies being pursued in the present Budget, with the failure to raise the cash limits for the National Health Service in line with the new pro-  jections on inflation and in line with other matters, will undoubtedly affect our ability to keep that important accident and emergency facility at that hospital. Second, my constituency will be affected if and when the public expenditure axe falls on the major sections of the road programme, for the eastern half of it suffers greatly as a result of traffic congestion on the north-south route. For those two constituency reasons, therefore, I regard the Budget as nothing short of a disaster for working people and their families. I say that not just because of the impact of the Budget on my constituency but because of its impact on the large economic aggregates. On Tuesday the Chancellor spoke of the rate of economic growth which he expected the United Kingdom economy to produce in the next year, and he said that it wold fall to a nil growth rate. Hon. Members on the Government Benches may care to reflect that the National Institute for Economic and Social Research predicted that growth in this financial year, in 1979–80, would be 1·6 per cent. if the policies being pursued by the Labour Government had been carried forward. I am one of those who regarded a 1·6 per cent. rate of growth as absurdly low, and I believe that the prospects which the new Government hold out of a nil rate of growth and the 1 per cent. fall in gross domestic product which is predicted for the forthcoming 12 months present a serious problem for us all. The Government's budgetary policy of trying to cut the rate of growth through the proposals which they have introduced, by some miraculous means transforming the British economy by having some sort of relationship between lower taxatian, higher productivity and a higher rate of economic growth in the long run, seems to me to be based on a spurious academic notion. I believe that, when the budgetary sums are completed next year, we shall see that the outcome in rate of economic growth will in the event be worse than the Government would lead us to expect. The policy which the Government are pursuing in the public sector, and in the National Health Service in particular, is extremely misguided. It is based on a fallacy about the way in which the public   and private sectors of the economy relate to one another. For example, we have had the theory enunciated from the Treasury Bench that the public sector is somehow crowding out the private sector, preventing employees from moving into the private sector and preventing investment from taking place. I do not believe that that argument is in any way based on fact, and, in truth, neither does the Treasury, because in its evidence to the Wilson committee on the financial institutions it made clear that it believed that that kind of argument was not supported by the facts. Moreover, we have to consider the manpower crowding-out effects. How can a home help who may be made redundant in my constituency somehow reappear as an engineering worker in Scotland or as a miner in Yorkshire? The whole thing is absurd. If manufacturing industry wants to employ more people, it can do so from the ranks of the 1·25 million unemployed who, I am sorry to say, were left as unemployed at the end of the Labour Government's term of office. That argument, therefore, on both the manpower side and the financial side, is misguided. I believe also that the cuts in public expenditure which the Government propose will not succeed in transferring resources to the private sector in any substantial way. After all, we had major cuts in public expenditure in 1975 and 1976, on four separate occasions, and the amount of resources diverted from the public sector into private sector manufacturing investment was only 25 per cent. of the total amount of cuts which were made by the Government at that time. So I do not believe that that policy will be successful. One of the important points raised in debate today is the question of the cash limits for the National Health Service. In his Budget we had from the Chancellor a statement to the effect that he did not want to reduce the amount of resources which the NHS could command. Today the Secretary of State referred to the cash limits for the NHS and said that they will be reduced in the same way as the Labour Government had intended. Hon. Members may be interested to know precisely what that was. I quote from a letter which was sent to administrators of  regional health authorities on 11 April 1979: Health authorities will accordingly be expected to plan their expenditure in 1979–80 on the following basis. No adjustment will be made to cash limits for a higher level of price inflation than that for which provision is already included. Cash limits will however be adjusted in full for the excess cost of current and future pay settlements approved by the Government, except that, in accordance with the Chief Secretary's statement, the NHS in Great Britain will be required to absorb a proportion of the cost, assessed at £22 million at Survey 1978 prices. That means that the implementation of the Clegg report on the claim for ancillary staff and for ambulance men in the National Health Service, when it comes out on 1 August, will be cut back by £22 million by this Government. I hope that the Secretary of State will reconsider his policy on that matter, since it will undoubtedly lead to cuts in services and cuts in jobs in the present financial year in a way which the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that his party was not committed to. I should like the Treasury Bench to confirm precisely what its policy is on that important matter. I turn to the effect of the Budget on collective bargaining. One of the most important points that those in the Government have been stressing over the past few months is the importance of achieving responsible collective bargaining in the private sector while retaining controls over public sector pay. The mix that has been put forward in the Budget is one that will cause serious industrial unrest among National Health Service employees over the next few months. I should not like to predict the extent to which the unrest will manifest itself. In October 1978 fulltime male ancillary staff were receiving 75·8 per cent. of the average male manual worker's earnings. The Budget, which increases VAT, will give them a very small increase in their take-home pay because of the tax changes. If there are tight cash limits, the low pay of those workers—the ancillary workers, nurses, and ambulance workers—will be maintained for ever. I do not support that policy. The Government should be generous in not only the implementation of the Clegg inquiry findings but in their negotiations with the relevant trade unions when they discuss   these matters in the December pay settlement talks, and thereafter in following pay rounds. The policies that the Government are introducing are likely to strain relationships between workers and employers in the National Health Service, and between workers and Government in the National Health Service, as well as being irrelevant to the problems that we face as an economy and as a nation. We should go for a much higher rate of economic growth. We should go for a planned economy. We should go for planning agreements of the sort that should have been implemented over the past five years. That sort of budgetary policy and economic analysis would do low-paid workers in the National Health Service and the public sector a great deal of good. The Government's proposals to shift resources from the public to the private sector will rapidly be shown to be fallacious and not proven. I hope that the Government will reconsider completely their budgetary policy. I know that that is a vain hope, but I believe that the prospect being held out before us is one of much higher unemployment and an attack on the social wage that will affect the living standards of ordinary working people. That should be resisted as far as is possible by the Labour movement both in and outside Parliament.
