gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I support the Amendment which has been moved from this side of the House, and in asking for the indulgence of the House I should like to bring the Debate back to the rather general line on which it commenced. I have the honour to represent a Liverpool constituency which is predominantly industrial, and I should like to make it plain to hon. Members on both sides that in the course of my election campaign I made public retrenchment the major plank of my appeal to the electorate. I am quite convinced, notwithstanding the smiles of the Minister of Health, that there is very profound disquiet about public expenditure, not only on both sides of this House, but amongst all sections of the community, The greatest single step that this House   could take to put the country on the road to economic sanity is economy on a large scale. Why do we on these benches advocate State economy? It is important to understand that we are advocating economy not merely or primarily because we want to see a lower level of taxation, or because we realise the important impact which extravagance has upon the cost of living. Basically, we are objecting to Government extravagance because on economic grounds we regard the actions of the Government as damaging to the national interest. Not only today, but for a considerable time past, there has been agreement between the two Front Benches that, if devaluation is not to plague our future, we must increase very largely the physical volume of our exports to overseas countries, and especially to the dollar area. That, however, it is simply impossible to achieve so long as the Government, which, after all, is the biggest spender in the country, is imposing such an enormous demand upon our productive capacity. That is the basis of the case which we on this side are trying to put across. We feel, therefore, that unless extravagance is curbed, the existing wounds in our external trading position are likely to become running sores which will debilitate the whole of our economic system. Neither I nor my colleagues are opposed to the social services in any sense whatever, but I ask hon. Members opposite if they would not agree with me when I put to them this proposition. The most important problem which the House has to consider is how we can reconcile and harmonise the social security and the economic security of the individual citizen with the economic security of the nation. We are not concerned this evening with the long-term solution to that problem, but there is a duty on both sides of the House to say how we propose to approach that problem on a short-term basis. I believe that it is possible, by improvements in administration, by eliminating fanciful form of over-organisation and some of the frills which have crept into State administration since the end of the war, to effect very large-scale economy. I was not greatly impressed by the case which was made out this afternoon by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If  I understood him aright, the right hon. and learned Gentleman admitted that certain Departments had exceeded their Estimates but said that, as there had been equivalent savings in other Departments, there was really nothing about which to be perturbed. I should have thought that if certain Departments had failed, quite rightly, to reach their estimated expenditure, that did not constitute any excuse for gross over-spending in other Departments. I take leave to wonder whether, when the Minister of Health and some of his colleagues were so blithely spending public money during the last 12 months, they had the smallest appreciation of the fact that any economies whatever were being effected in other Departments. I agree that control of expenditure, not only personally but in the spheres of local government and, particularly, of national government, is an exceptionally difficult matter, because the opportunity to check the bedrock detail of expenditure so very rarely arises. It is the cumulative effect of a multiplicity of small items of expenditure, which in themselves are perfectly justifiable and virtuous, that creates the difficulties in which we find ourselves today. It is all very well for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to talk about his new ideas, his new system for creating a sense of economy in Government Departments, but we shall never get the retrenchment for which we on this; side are asking until there is a conscious will on the part of all Ministers of the State for economy. It is quite plain this afternoon that that will does not exist, and that the longer right hon. Gentlemen opposite are in office, the more we are likely to see spate after spate of Supplementary Estimates presented to the House. I take that view for a very simple reason, which, if the House will bear with me, I will try to explain. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, as is well known, fall into two schools of thought. There are some who believe that the eventual goal of the Socialist State will be brought about by the redistribution of ownership. They advocate the nationalisation of industry or a capital levy or a combination of the two. There are other hon. Gentlemen opposite who believe that the same end can be achieved by the redistribution of incomes through taxation and the social services. It will not have escaped the notice of the House that the first school of thought sustained a slight setback on 23rd February. The nationalisation chariot was rather unceremoniously kicked into the ditch by the British public and, judging by the Gracious Speech and what has gone since, I should imagine that the Prime Minister, and certainly the Lord President of the Council, are perfectly happy to leave that chariot in the ditch. At the same time, the redistribution of incomes chariot goes backwards and forwards in a very uncertain fashion, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer trying to restrain it and, I suspect, the Minister of Health trying to urge it on. That brings me to my final point. The Chancellor, speaking in this House in April last year, used these words: …There is not much further…possibility of the redistribution of national income by…taxation.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 6th April, 1949; Vol. 463, c. 2083.] That, if it implied anything, implied that it was not possible for State expenditure to rise. However, that appeared to be a heresy because six days later the Economic Secretary to the Treasury used these words: …There is quite a way to go…in the redistribution of property by taxation.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 12th April, 1949; Vol. 463, c. 2652.] I took that to be a direct stimulus to the squandermaniacs on the Front Bench opposite. In order to clinch the argument, the Minister of Health, speaking in his own particular idiom in South Wales in October, said this: Further redistribution has to take place because redistribution is also retribution. There lies the moral justification in the right hon. Gentleman's own mind for the enormous Supplementary Estimate that has come from his Department today. I am not one of those hon. Members who believe that the Minister of Health is incompetent or inefficient. I do not expect, when he speaks later in this Debate, that he will be apologetic. However, I do regard him as a clearheaded and logical Socialist who knows where he is going. He is going towards his Socialist goal by the wholesale redistribution of incomes, and a man who believes that, as he does, may be perfectly right according to his own lights but, considering the economic plight of this country, I submit he is fatally and miserably wrong.
