gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first occasion when I have had the privilege of addressing this House, I should like to start by craving its indulgence and by hoping that the shortcomings of my speech will be treated by the House with the tolerance which it normally accords to maiden speakers. I should like to say one or two things about a subject which has not been mentioned very often during this Debate and which, rather surprisingly, does not appear to be mentioned in the Gracious Speech: that is, the continuing danger of inflation. Of all the economic difficulties now facing us, none is more important than the continuing upward pressure of prices. Certainly, housewives know perfectly well how important and what a great social problem rising prices have been in recent years, and prices will continue to rise for the next few months, if anything, rather faster than they have done recently. Nor is that the only reason why the danger of inflation still remains so important. On 26th October last the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in a speech to which my hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin (Mr. D. Marshall) has already referred, issued a very grave warning when he said that unless we can all increase our production quickly and bring down our costs we shall be facing the danger of a tragic fall in our standard of living and widespread unemployment. The stern nature of this warning has been a little muffled in recent weeks but, nevertheless, that warning remains as true today as when it was issued in October. In dealing with the problem of inflation, much emphasis is nowadays laid on the need for a Budget surplus. That is a rather novel idea but it is one which is now accepted, I believe, on both sides of the House. The point I wish to make is that a Budget surplus is not necessarily the best way, in every case, to counter the danger of inflation. It depends partly on how the surplus is achieved. A surplus based on increased taxation rather than on decreased Government expenditure may be positively harmful; and if we are mesmerised by the idea of a Budget surplus we may tend to forget the other methods of countering inflation, such as increased personal savings or increased production. After all, the main purpose is to equate goods with purchasing power. The purpose of a Budget surplus is to reduce purchasing power at a time of excessive demand; but purchasing power can be reduced by increased individual savings. On the other hand, the amount of goods available will be increased by increased production. I suggest, therefore, that the Government should not always turn down suggestions which may increase personal savings or help even further to increase production merely because they may make some reduction of the prospective Budget surplus. I should like to make one or two suggestions: first, on the subject of savings, and second, on production. The main two reasons why national savings figures have been so disappointing recently have been the high level of taxation and the feeling among savers that the money they put aside may, over a period of years, lose its value, either by the attrition of steadily rising prices or by confiscatory measures which may be imposed by a Government. These, however, are rather large subjects and somewhat controversial for this occasion. I want to make just two suggestions. First, would the Government look again at the rate of interest currently paid on the present issue of National Savings Certificates? That rate of interest has not varied in the last two years, whereas the yield on gilt-edged securities has considerably increased. Consequently, the differential between the two, if I may use that phrase. has been altered to the disadvantage of the small saver. It is possible that a small additional expenditure on interest on National Savings Certificates might yield a very large disinflationary potential in the form of increased personal savings. Second, there is the position of the professional classes and the self-employed people, who, in the past, have contributed very largely towards the total volume of individual savings. Nowadays, we all realise that people who are self-employed or in the professions find it very difficult to save anything at all. In one respect they are worse off than people who are employees in industry. A man employed in industry, in whatever capacity, can, I understand, nor-  mally take out a contract for a deferred annuity through an approved superannuation scheme and treat the premiums as an expense for Income Tax purposes. That applies to an employee, whether he be a manager, an executive, or engaged in any other capacity. Since the Finance Act, 1916, however a similar concession has not been available to a partner, to a professional man, or to the self-employed. I ask the Government to consider whether the extension of these provisions in respect of similar premiums for the self-employed would not once again, at the cost to the Treasury of only a very small amount, yield a considerable volume of fresh savings, which are as much an effective safeguard against inflationary pressure as an increased Budget surplus. All hon. Members on this side of the House, I think, believe that the main hindrance in the way of increased production today is the weight of taxation. Hon. Members opposite rather tend, if anything, to minimise the effect of taxation upon the wage earner. It is sometimes suggested that the weight of taxation falls only on the profits of, or the very high level executives in, industry, but I should like to quote certain figures. A married man with one child starts paying Income Tax on an annual income of£300. He starts paying Income Tax at the second rate—the 6s. rate—on an annual income of£362. In other words, at about£7 per week, which is the average industrial earnings of an adult male, the rate of Income Tax jumps from 3s. in the£ to 6s. in the£. Before the war, in 1939, Income Tax allowances were broadly similar; therefore, the point at which Income Tax became payable was roughly the same then as it is now. Before the war, however, the average industrial earnings figure was 69s., and not 139s. as it is now. Of course, prices have shown a certain rise at the same time. Not only was that true; it was also true that when a man started paying Income Tax, for the first£135 he paid at the rate of 1 s. 8d. I advance these statistical considerations, therefore, as some backing for the argument, which I believe has much validity, that the impact of P.A.Y.E. on weekly earnings is a very great disincentive to production   Many ingenious schemes have been put forward for trying to overcome this difficulty and trying to get out of the position we are in now, when increased earnings always attract a higher rate of tax. I myself doubt whether any of these schemes would produce a final solution, because our tax system is based on the principle that the higher the income the higher the rate of tax, and if that principle is applied to annual salaries it would be difficult to avoid applying it to weekly earnings. The suggestion which I would like to make to the Government is that, between now and the Budget and Finance Bill, the Chancellor should look at the reduced rate reliefs and see if it is possible to extend the present lowest level of Income Tax relief at 3s. in the pound on the first£50 of taxable income to£100 or even£150. This is in line with what the Chancellor did a year or two ago in extending the 6s. level from£75 to£200. It would be well worth while to consider the possibility of extending that first reduced rate from the first£50, as at present, to£100 or perhaps£150. In so many cases, increased earnings, from extra hard work or increased output, suddenly attracts the increased rate of taxation. I know that any such alteration would involve the Treasury in a substantial loss of revenue, but the point is that that loss of revenue might be more than counterbalanced by the gain in production which would arise from such relief. The main point I want to make is that a Budget surplus is, in many cases, a good way of tackling the problem of inflation, but not always, and not irrespective of the means by which it is achieved. The method of applying leeches, when first used by the medical profession was a great advance, but it became customary to apply leeches whatever the patient or the complaint. I think there is some analogy here. If financial leeches, if I may use such an expression to describe tax gatherers, are applied they may he very useful indeed with a patient suffering from galloping inflation, but if applied too long and too assiduously the effect may be not to increase production or reduce inflationary pressure, but to drain strength from the patient and make ultimate recovery more painful and more prolonged. We cannot, in this country, tax ourselves into prosperity.
