gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I fear that I may be trying the patient.: of the House considerably in being the third maiden speaker tonight to ask for its indulgence. This is an important debate, on which many hon. Members on both sides wish to take part, but, nevertheless, I ask for the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. I certainly feel myself in need of it. Before I come to the matter under discussion, I hope that the House will forgive me for offering a personal word. I should like to say how conscious I am that my election to the House was made possible as a result of the loss to the House of a man very greatly respected on both sides, a man whose outspoken ways did not always command agreement from all hon. Members but who always, for his courage and candour.   commanded respect. His friends on both sides, I am sure, would like to know that I have found much evidence in my constituency of the high regard in which people held him there. When the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Housing and Local Government opened the debate, he said that he supposed that all hon. Members taking part would have a particular angle; they would be county council people, county borough people, and so on. I plead guilty to being a county borough man with a Greater London complex. The White Paper points out that, in all the great variety of authorities in Greater London, there are three county boroughs. I have the honour to represent one half of one of these county boroughs in this House, the County Borough of East Ham. It happens that I have had experience also as a borough councillor for six years on the council of one of the other county boroughs in the Greater London area, the County Borough of Croydon. I shall use the ""parish pump"" a little. I know that that approach has been deplored in this debate, but I hope that what I have to say here will have a wider application. First, as to the way in which the financial proposals seem likely to affect the Borough of East Ham, I must report to the House that they have been received by the Council and by the Council's officials with a great deal of concern. If I appear critical, I hope that I shall not be thought to offend against tradition in making a maiden speech by being too controversial. I do not intend it in a party sense, at least, because the other council to which I referred, that of the County Borough of Croydon, which has a political control different from that of East Ham, passed a resolution the other evening which was very critical of these proposals, for much the same reasons. The East Ham Borough Council is concerned, first of all, as most authorities are, at the uncertainty of the future. Those of us who have taken part in local authority work know that, under the system of specific grants, authorities are able to plan ahead, make an estimate of costs, and know what proportion of those costs will come to them from Government grants. The position now is that councils do not know how much  they will get. Although there will be announcements from year to year, they do not know what they will get in two or three years' time; they have only the hypothetical figures in the White Paper. Nor do they know how the grants in future will be adjusted to inflationary pressure. I realise that the Minister dealt at some length with that and said that it was explained in the White Paper that the Government would take account of inflationary tendencies. But how quickly? Things will be very different from what they were under the system of specific grants when authorities received a proportion of what they were spending. An even more serious cause for concern, perhaps, in my constituency arises from what is said in the White Paper about there being some gaining authorities and some losing authorities. All the evidence seems to indicate that East Ham will be a losing authority when these new grants come into effect. In the financial year 1956–57, the value to the County Borough of East Ham of the specific grants, which will be superseded, was about£900,000. From the figures given in the Annex to the White Paper, we see that, if these moneys had been applied in the same year to the County Borough of East Ham, it would have received only£776,400. From the rerating of industry, the Borough would have received about£58,000. I will not trouble the House with the details, but there is left a gap of about£65,600, which is over a 1s. rate. Here I illustrate what I meant when I said that I hope the House will forgive me for my parish pump method of speaking. I consider it is a serious matter for the whole country if authorities which have a poor rateable value, as East Ham has, are to be losing authorities under the scheme. In East Ham the product of a Id. rate is less than£6,000, and at the moment the rate is 22s. 6d. in the£. Consequently, these proposals are very serious. We realise that there are some other imponderable factors. We do not expect to get much value locally from the new system of rating nationalised industries, and we do not anticipate that the new rate deficiency grant will do anything to make up the gap compared with the old equalisation grant. As in the case of other authorities, our education costs will be going up in the near future. The bulge in the school population is passing from the primary schools to the secondary schools with a greater cost per child. The very fact that the basis of the new grant takes no account of the current level of spending or the prospective level of spending on srevices such as education means that an authority in the position of East Ham will get a smaller share in future of the Government's money than it has done in the past. I hope all these matters will be taken into account by the Government before legislation is drafted. I wish to say a few words on the question of area status. Here I shall leave the parish pump behind. Perhaps that is just as well, because I think that when we address our minds to the question of local government reform we are all liable to have split minds. We tend to be in favour of reform in general but not of reform in particular when it affects our own area, particularly if we think it will have an adverse effect. Surely there is an overwhelming case for a large measure of reform in local government. I can only express the hope that the measure suggested by the Government of using the new local government commissions will prove adequate to the task. I have some doubts about it, but I hope they will act with speed and will not be afraid to make drastic proposals. The present framework was laid down, as we are reminded in the White Paper, in the Local Government Acts of 1888 and 1894. In those days local government was very different from what it is now. There was practically no provision for public education and practically nothing in the way of public housing, and the highways did not carry a single motor car. The picture was entirely different. The population changes which have taken place since then have been enormous. In those days the people had not heard of ""conurbation"" or ""special review area"". We have since then had an enormous social revolution without the pattern of local government keeping pace. There was only one major safety valve, and that was the promotion to county borough status of towns which were growing, but that safety valve has been stooped for over thirty years. I hope I do not appear to be too partisan if I say that the Government seem to be rather slow in bringing forward any major proposals for reform In case I am accused of being partisan I had better say that successive Governments have failed in that respect. My hon. Friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde (Mr. Blackburn)referred to the fact that it was likely to take a long time before the local government commissions were able to bring forward their proposals and the proposals were acted upon. I would ask whether the Government would consider either the setting up of more commissions or adopting some system by which the commissions can devolve their authority on sub-commissions so that the work may be put forward more quickly. I had intended to refer to the impossible task of bringing the Greater London problem into the work of the commission for England, but that has now been covered by the proposal for the setting up of a Royal Commission. One can only hope that this Royal Commission will work more quickly than most Royal Commissions and that its proposals will be implemented with speed. We have to make up our minds to the fact that we do not want to change for the sake of change, but we want to make certain that our local government system keeps pace with a changing society. A system laid down in the latter part of the nineteenth century cannot of itself cope with the problems of the second half of the twentieth century. I hope that in this matter the Government and the House will not be afraid, where necessary, to tread upon local vested interests—quite honourable ones—which want to cling to the forms to which they have been accustomed, and that we shall have the resolution to carry forward a genuine reform of local government. Those of us who believe in it, as I hope we all do, must realise that unless the form of local government is adequate to those tasks it is bound to lose further powers in the future and will not flourish as we want it to flourish.
