gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to welcome this Bill, and, in particular, to welcome what the Minister said, in presenting it to the House. If this Bill is  going to do any good, it must create a national service, it has to be conducted on an orderly plan; there must be a standing advisory committee, to see to the whole scheme, and to see that its operation is conducted in an orderly manner. I believe that it is tremendously important. When I first read this Bill I did not like it. That was not because I was afraid that stock produced by artificial insemination would not be so good individually as stock produced by natural methods. Frankly, I think that is pure superstition. The reason why I felt doubts as to whether this Bill would prove effective in improving our stock was this: You do not solve your breeding problems merely by making good bulls generally available. You can breed just as bad stock by using good stock as by using bad stock if you mate your good stock injudiciously. That does not merely apply as between breeds, it applies within them. For instance, if you mate a Derby winner and an Oaks winner, you will sometimes, in fact very often, get an animal that will not win a selling plate. Successful breeding is not merely a question of selecting good individuals; it is not as easy a job as that. Perhaps the House will forgive me if I give a short explanation of the scientific background of this problem, in so far as we know it. I have been warned that the House hates to be lectured, but if I put this explanation very shortly indeed, I hope the House will not be bored. When two animals mate the process that takes place is that a chromosome from the male comes into contact with a chromosome of the female. A chromosome may be likened to a centipede. It is a thing with legs in pairs down the sides of it. Each of those legs is called a gene. When the mating takes place, one of each pair of these pairs of legs in the male comes into contact with one of each pair of legs in the female, and so you get a new chromosome, from which comes all the heritable qualities of the offspring and which contains one leg or heritable factor from each pair posesssed by each parent. Now, not all those heritable qualities which are inherited from each parent have any visible effect. Some are called dominants, some are called recessives, and it is the recessives which produce the great problem of the breeder. Let me take a simple example. If you mate the yellow pea with a green pea all your first generation will be green peas, but nevertheless they will all have a yellow recessive. When you interbreed with that first generation, you will get a percentage of yellow peas where the two yellow recessives come together, but the majority of your peas will be green peas. Some will be pure breeding green peas, which is where the two dominant green factors have come together, and some will have a yellow recessive. All will look the same. The real problem of the breeder, if green is the breeding point he is aiming at, is to produce a pure breeding green pea. They all look the same, and the only way you can find out the difference is by knowing the back pedigree and being able to know whether that particular family throws out yellows. That is a simple illustration. With cattle breeding you have to know the pedigree some distance back to know whether you are going to get the desirable characteristics for which you are aiming or whether you are going to get undesirable offshoots, and when the right hon. and learned Member for Cirencester (Mr. W. S. Morrison) spoke, I could not agree with him more as to the desirability of breeding for constitution. Constitution is a point like any other point, but you will not get constitution in a fixed sense, so that it will breed true, by breeding mongrels. You must get a pure breed constitution if you are going to reproduce constitution with certainty. That is the object of the breeder; not merely to breed good cattle—that is easy enough—but to breed cattle which are not only good in themselves but, because they are pure, will pass on their characteristics. The desirable characteristics in a dairy cow do not spring from a single gene, they come from a particular combination or pattern of heritable characteristics, each working on the other, but it is not by any means always the same pattern that produces the same result. Take, for instance, the shorthorn and the redpoll. There you get substantially the same fattening qualities, substantially the same milking qualities, and substantially the same quick maturing qualities, but you get them as a result of a different genetic pattern. So if you inter-breed those two you may be all right in your first generation but, after a bit, you will be getting bad mongrels. That is not merely confined to where you hybridise two different breeds. It can happen within a single breed. If I may take an example of that let me take the thoroughbred race horse. Different breeders in different parts of the country have achieved the combination which goes to make up a good race horse, but they have achieved it by different breeding methods. That has not been recognised, with the result that these horses and mares, bred on different lines, have been mated. The result is that breeding race horses is the biggest gamble in the world. The thoroughbred breeder today has not the faintest idea of what he is breeding, because he has got his breed so mixed up that he is really encountering all the difficulties which come from breeding mongrels. There is, I think, only one stud in this country that has concentrated upon developing a single line and thereby continues to get good results, generation after generation, and that is Lord Derby's stud. Lord Derby's stud has succeeded because it has developed the line of Polymelus, and I think every one of the Stanley House stallions is inbred to Polymelus. They have developed a single line, and within that stud they have developed a pure bred line; and apart from those Stanley House stallions we, who are the creators of the thoroughbred, have to a large extent to go to France and Italy for our best stallions. That is what can happen to a breed if you do not develop pure lines within the breed. Very much the same sort of thing happened to the shorthorns, but during the last 20 or 30 years, within various herds, pure bred lines have been developed. And so with the shorthorns which 20 years ago were very nearly as much a gamble to breed as thoroughbred race horses, it is now possible to know what you are breeding—to be sure, for instance, of getting a good milker. It is on lines of that sort that this problem should be approached. What we want first is that the artificial insemination centres should have not merely good bulls but bulls which are drawn from lines of breeding which are common in the district, so that we will be developing distinct lines of breed, and we want sequences of bulls coming from those same lines, so that in each district we shall be building up a pure line of breeding within   the breed. Then we need to co-ordinate with that the bull licensing system. Frankly, there cannot be anything very much more absurd than looking at a bull and saying, ""We will license him to be a dairy bull."" When you look at a dairy cow and you can see an udder and milk vein you have some clue as to her milking capacity, but when you look at a bull you have not a clue of any sort, and nobody can say, merely from looking at a bull, whether it is going to get good milkers. And yet that is the primary test for the selection of bulls. Indeed, under the 1931 Act the one important thing, which is breeding, does not come into the matter at all. Indeed, the only reason why the 1931 Act has worked is because the livestock inspectors have shown a great deal of good sense and have, quite illegally, considered the breeding of bulls. What we want is to license bulls not on their appearance but according to their pedigree, and to license bulls not generally but for a particular herd, because a bull which may do a great service in one herd will be a menace to another. That is important. Lastly, with regard to the bull subsidy scheme, I myself would prefer to see the Ministry go in for buying their own bulls and leasing the bulls in a district. That would be a much better way of doing it. On the other hand, if they are going to subsidise, only bulls of the particular breeding line within the breed which they propose to encourage in that district should be subsidised. We do most urgently need a co-ordinated scheme which is going to build up within the breeds and within the districts pure-bred lines upon which we can rely. Here one of the most essential things we must look for, in which I agree very strongly with what the right hon. and learned Member for Cirencester said, is constitution. I was much comforted when the Minister said that this Bill was to be worked within a plan, because when I first looked at the Bill I had fears in reference to the people who were to administer the scheme, because, as regards the Milk Marketing Board, what they are primarily concerned with is to take the immediate produce, good milk from the first generation. That can be got very easily by hybridising. You can get the first generation by crossing breeds and you will probably  get the advantages of both breeds because good qualities tend to be dominant, but you will lose the purity of your stock and get your headache on the second generation. I met in Cumberland a man who was taking some very nice Friesian cross bred heifers from his own shorthorn stock to market. I asked, ""What are you going to do?"" He said, ""I shall sell them. They will sell well, they will produce milk, and I am passing on the headache of the next generation to somebody else."" That is what I am afraid might happen here. You will get Friesian bulls introduced, because they will, on the first generation, probably produce the most milk, but if you do that you are going to mongrelise your stock and lay up trouble in the future. Therefore, I hope that very great care will be taken to see that breeding societies do not go into competition to push bulls of their own particular breed; that a long view is taken and not merely the first generation view; and that the whole thing is co-ordinated and worked according to plan. I have a further suggestion and that is that the calves produced by this system should be earmarked, so that we can trace how they are bred, and can know how the things we are doing are working out. There is just one other point, that of range, referred to by an hon. Member opposite. The Cambridge insemination centre is at the moment inseminating cows from Cumberland, a very wide range.
