gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am in the position of making my maiden speech following on the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Sheffield, Hillsborough (Mr. Flannery). I disagree with many of the things said by the hon. Gentleman, but he holds his views strongly and we shall listen to his speeches with interest. I have inherited a seat that was previously represented by two Members, Sir Eric Bullus who represented Wembley, North, and Sir Ronald Russell who represented Wembley, South, half of whose constituency has come into Brent, North. Those two Members served the House for nearly 25 years, obviously with the confidence of their constituents, because they were returned here at each election. I know from what others have said that those two hon. Members looked after the interests of their constituents. I know, too, the respect in which they were held by many of their friends in the House, and the fact that both were knighted for their services is a tribute to what they did over that period of time. The constituency of Brent, North consists largely of Wembley. It is a suburban constituency that was built up between the two world wars. It grew largely out of the British Empire Exhibition of 1924–25 which brought fame not only to Wembley and London but to the whole country. Also in Wembley we have the famous stadium which seats 100,000 people, and in these days when there is so much trouble at football grounds, as we have seen recently, I am sure that it will be the wish of all hon. Members that I attend matches regularly on Saturdays when they are played to make sure that there is law and order in the capital and that its good name is not besmirched. Near the stadium there is the new Esso hotel in which visitors can stay, and further on there is the Conservative club which I can recommend to my hon. Friends. It is known as the Red House, not because of dissentient views or Socialist infiltration, but because of the beautiful shades of colour in which the club was built. One can find other amazing things in Wembley. One can even find thatched cottages within 12 miles of the centre of London. Recently, a bus driver was so taken aback by the sight of a thatched cottage that he drove his bus into it and the cottage surrounded the bus. If one wishes to visit the constituency, it may thus be safer to take a tube journey of 12 minutes starting from Baker Street after visiting Madame Tussaud's. I now propose to refer to that part of the Gracious Speech which deals with education. First, on the expansion of nursery education, I know that many hon. Members feel that much family deprivation can be rectified in this way. It might be slightly controversial to say so, since I shall probably be expressing a different opinion from that of many other hon. Members, but I believe that nursery education is not a panacea and cure-all. Research coming out of America indicates that children entering a nursery school at the age of three may be more advanced than others at the age of five, but by the age of seven, there is little to choose between them and those who have not attended nursery schools. It is like a one-stage rocket that does not go up. The Office of Economic Opportunity in America has found that the best way of helping mother and child is by helping the mother. Dr. Mary Robinson's scheme whereby mothers are paid about £2 a session to listen to talks on education-related subjects such as vocabulary and choice of books has proved of advantage to children not only at the age of five but at the ages of seven and eight. I was particularly struck by what my right hon. and learned Friend said about playgroups. In a difficult financial situation, we may be better helping the family and spending money on extending the numbers of the 250,000 children who are in voluntary playgroups than on the very expensive business of expanding nursery education. The hon. Member for Hillsborough referred to the teacher shortage, especially in London. The Secretary of State would not be thanked by a parent who saw his child accepted into a nursery school at the age of three while his other son was on part-time schooling at the age of 14, as is the case in many parts of London and other cities. The first priority is to get enough good teachers into schools catering for the statutory age range of five to 16. We need not just numbers of teachers but teachers of good quality. This is a priority that we have not yet fulfilled and it should be concentrated on by hon. Members on both sides if we are to fulfil our pledges to the nation. Turning to the extension of comprehensive education, for the information of the hon. Member for Hillsborough I should declare that I have spent the whole of my life, apart from service in the Royal Navy, teaching in State schools, that I went to a State school myself, as did my wife, who is also in the teaching profession, and that my children, apart from two years that one of them spent in the preparatory department of a direct grant school, have spent all their lives in State education as well. So there need be no cheap remarks about any comments that I may make about comprehensive education. Thirteen years ago I would probably have agreed with the statement in the Gracious Speech and the views of many hon. Members opposite. But my experience, certainly in London and many other areas, and also what I have seen in America and read about in Eastern   Europe, convinces me that comprehensive education is not the great answer that it was once thought to be. It is possible, and I say possible, that, in rural areas and small towns, comprehensive schools will succeed, but what is happening in London and elsewhere suggests that there is something in their structure, not just a question of teacher supply or wages, but the difficulty of spread of ability and size and variety of courses, which almost destroys them from the centre. While we may be moving, as are one or two other countries in Europe—but not all of them—towards comprehensive education, Eastern Europe has moved away from the common school. In America, New York and Los Angeles are moving to highly specialised subject schools. We shall never have a perfect education system; we shall never ""hit the buffers"" and change no more. We have never finished one form of school reorganisation before starting another, and I can already see signs of change in the present situation. The fact that in Russia there are 400 highly specialist mathematical and science schools from which 80 per cent. go to university should warn us of the competition that we shall face in industry, science and technology in world markets. We should stay where we are and analyse what we are doing, see what is happening in many other countries and realise that, in the centre of London, many working-class parents this year set up their own school because they were disenchanted with many comprehensive schools in that area. The statement issued earlier this week by the Secretary of State referred to consultation, before a circular is issued, with teachers and local authorities. Unless Press reports were wrong—I hope that they were—there was no mention of consultation with parents. It is fascinating how readily we talk about participation yet make little reference to the parents, the people most concerned with the education of the children, and they, as Christopher Jencks made clear, are most influential on their children's schools. I predict that parent power will be the power of the 'seventies and that power will not remain with teachers.  Parents are very concerned about standards of schools, discipline and so on. We are likely to go one of two ways. Either there will be an emphasis on national standards because of disillusionment with standards in many schools—I should not be surprised if the Labour Party goes in that direction in the next 10 years—or there will be more parental choice, which in itself will monitor these schools. I support the educational voucher, which is supported by the Left in America, although not in this country, of involving parents in the education of their children, not just by the sop of electing a parent-governor once every three years but by actually giving them a choice of schools on the basis of religion, discipline, academic emphasis, single sex or some other criterion. I do not know how the Secretary of State will do this, but I should like to see wider consultation in each area with parents, and not just with pressure groups such as CASE, which represents probably a much smaller segment of parents. I have tried to be careful not to raise ire on either side of the House in this non-controversial speech. One mention in the Gracious Speech which I welcome particularly and which I think will be welcome throughout the House is the reference to special provision for handicapped children. I have no doubt that the test of a civilised society is how it treats the deprived and handicapped, and I am delighted to see this. On that point, if on no other, the Secretary of State can count on 100 per cent. support in the House.
