gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like first to congratulate the hon. Member for Daventry (Mr. Boswell) on having got through his maiden speech and on having got behind him what I have before me. He mentioned that he was rather diffident about rising to his feet because of the seat that he represents and its long history, including the fact that a Speaker of the House has represented it. That is also true of the constituency of Cardiff, West, that I represent. Mr. Speaker's predecessor, now Lord Tonypandy, but then Mr. George Thomas, represented this constituency, give or take a ward or boundary change here or there, for 38 years, from 1945 to 1983. I am the present Mr. Speaker's predecessor's successor's successor and I suppose that in Wales that makes Mr. Speaker and myself virtually first cousins. At the same time in 1945 that Mr. Speaker Thomas started his parliamentary career, in the adjoining seat of Cardiff, South and Penarth, Mr. James Callaghan, now Sir James, started his parliamentary career. He went on to become Prime Minister. Therefore, between them, Sir James Callaghan and Lord Tonypandy performed 80 years of service to this House, although the service was concurrent and not consecutive, as it would be put in the Old Bailey. The fact that there was 80 years of service from two hon. Members with adjoining seats in the same city—one going on to become Prime Minister and the other to become Speaker of the House of Commons—is, as it would be put in the Windmill theatre, an act that is difficult to follow. I am sure that that is something that my hon. Friend the Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael), who made an excellent maiden speech about the Gracious Speech last Thursday, and I are very conscious of as we start our parliamentary careers. I also wish to refer to my immediate predecessor, Mr. Stefan Terlezki, because in 1945. when Sir James Callaghan and Lord Tonypandy were starting their parliamentary careers, Stefan Terlezki and I were engaged in the one thing that we may have in common: at about that time, we were both learning to speak English. Although we may have been light years apart politically, one thing that we had in common was that neither of us spoke English as his first language. He was learning English in the maelstrom of war-shattered Europe in displaced persons' camps in Germany run by the British Army, and I was learning English in the slightly less hurly-burly atmosphere of the playground of Radyr junior mixed and infants' school in the heart of my constituency. When I made my maiden speech in the school playground, criticising an lbw decision or whatever it might have been,  Stefan Terlezki was probably learning English from Army sergeants. I am sure that while he was learning English he did not expect to end up in the Chamber of this House. Nor did I. But we both did, and he served his constituents diligently for four years. I am fortunate to be able to follow him. When I attended that school it was not much like a normal school in a quiet village on the edge of Cardiff in the heart of the constituency, because it was swollen to twice its size by the number of evacuee children and the children of people who had arrived in Cardiff under the direction of labour, which was such a prominent feature of Britain during the war. We were never sure what almost incomprehensible English accent we would hear next. There were children from inner-city London, Maidstone, Birmingham and Motherwell. We heard so many variants on the English language, it was rather like a meeting of the parliamentary Labour party. The problem in the parliamentary Labour party is that we have considerable difficulty understanding one another—linguistically at least. Conservative Members have the opposite problem. With a few exceptions, they speak the same language, but they have extreme difficulty in communicating with the industrial heartlands of Great Britain. The main subjects in this debate on the Finance Bill are the two interrelated problems which affect areas such as Wales, Scotland, the north of England and the inner cities of south and central England differently from the prosperous parts of Great Britain. There is an imbalance between the north and west and the south-east, and there is also an imbalance between services and manufacturing. We still have to solve that problem. During the eight years that they have been in power, the Government have conducted a shrinkage exercise on manufacturing. They proclaim proudly that we are now in the seventh year of economic growth, but that has not even brought manufacturing industry back to the level of output that it had achieved in 1979. We should not cross swords on such simple matters of fact. It may be that, quite soon, we shall reach the level of manufacturing output that we had in 1979. I wonder what Conservative Members will do to celebrate the occasion when we regain that level of manufacturing output. Will they run up the flags and say, ""What a great achievement. We have been on the Circle line for eight or nine years, and we have finally got back to where we started""? Some of us new Members from Wales do have similar experiences fathoming the complexities of the London transport system. Or will they try to ignore the fact? Recently, the Western Mail—the national newspaper of Wales—said that the Royal Mint, which is just outside my constituency, will soon be striking a new form of gold bullion coin which is Britain's answer to the kruggerrand and the Australian nugget. There are 2·5 million of them in store to launch on the investment market. It would he very suitable if that coin was launched on the day when manufacturing output again reached its 1979 level. It will take even longer to reach the point that manufacturing output would have reached had it remained stable during those eight years; and if we want to wait until manufacturing investment regains its 1979 level, we shall have to wait another 10 to 15 years—probably into the 21st century. We must find a way of putting right that imbalance in our economy. If we try to live on services and continually squeeze manufacturing industry in a downward direction, we shall become very   dependent on the south-east and there will be a continuation of the rampant house price inflation which has made labour mobility between regions extremely difficult. Conservative Members believe that labour mobility is extremely desirable, but how can we have such labour mobility when the gap in house prices between the south-east of England and the north and west has yawned into a gaping chasm, making interregional movement impossible? Similarly, if Conservative Members wish to encourage more owner-occupation, with which I entirely agree, they will be putting a further block on labour mobility between the regions. We shall have to go back to putting greater emphasis on work mobility. We can have labour mobility between the regions at different levels of prosperity only if we have approximately comparable house prices or not so much owner-occupation. Britain has gone in for large-scale owner-occupation, which is a bar to labour mobility. The Government must make the choice and solve the problem in their own way. The country must know what the Government's attitude to manufacturing is. Is it the cold shower, of which they were so proud between 1979 and 1981? Even today, they refer to the great benefits and increased efficiency brought about by the notorious cold shower — the weakening of trade union power which came about as a result of the increase of unemployment, which was a result of the 20 per cent. drop in manufacturing output during those two devastating years. Conservative Members should remember that those years were far more devastating in the outer regions of the United Kingdom. Those regions did not have the decision-making power, the big offices or the public sector employment. They did not have the service industries, or the employment in insurance, banking and finance. They were overwhelmingly dependent on industry, and especially on heavy industry. Therefore, with the increase in the currency rate to the wholly uncompetitive level of $2·40 to the pound, industry in Britain — especially internationally based industry and industry such as iron and steel which bought its raw materials from overseas—was crushed by the loss of competitiveness. The currency changes, the use of energy pricing as a form of taxation and the high interest rates which monetarism introduced all bore down disproportionately. first, on heavy industry and, secondly, on manufacturing industry at large and, therefore, on the northern and western regions, which depended upon heavy industry and manufacturing generally and which did not have big investments in insurance, banking and finance. That is the problem. The decisions are made in the south-east of England, but those decisions bear especially heavily on the north and west. Until the position is reversed, the imbalance between services and manufacturing will not be corrected. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has defended putting more of our eggs into the insurance, banking and finance markets as a form of wealth creation. Where will that get us? There are signs that the Japanese economic strength that we have already seen in manufacturing is coming through into insurance, banking and finance. Only two weeks ago, we heard that the Financial Times building in the City had been bought for £125 million by a Japanese property company. The Japanese are already coming into Britain in property, insurance, banking and finance. Last year, the largest firm in the Eurobond market was not British or European, it was Nomura Securities of Japan. The Financial Times gave a list of the top 10 Eurobond issuing houses in terms of performance in 1985 — the last year for which there are full figures. It reported that Nomura had brought 11·1 per cent. of all Eurobonds to the market during that period. One of its senior British competitors was reported as saying: They have simply gone out and bought market share, using their massive profits in the Tokyo market to subsidise loss-making Eurobond deals"". Where have we heard that before? We have heard it about motor cycles, motor cars, televisions, compact discs and all major manufactured goods. If anyone says that the Japanese will only try to out-compete this country and other European countries in manufacturing and that the Japanese will say, ""Let the British have control of insurance, banking and finance,"" he is talking through his hat. That person is living in fairyland. Japan, having achieved the dominant position within the manufacturing industries and having out-competed British manufacturing companies, will use the colossal savings ratio of Japanese manufacturing workers to build up a capital base for its bond dealing houses. Japan will dominate the City of London as well. There is no evidence to suggest that, because we have been unable to compete with Japan in manufacturing, we will, none the less, out-compete Japan on insurance, banking and finance. Japan has a much stronger capital base arising from its strength in the manufacturing industries. Therefore, we must pay much more attention to the underlying strength of our manufacturing exports if we want to retain our insurance, banking and finance industries. Even though few Labour Members represent seats in the south of England, I appeal to Tory Members to have regard to the future. They should consider what happened to the steel, motor car and motor cycle industries. They should consider that that could also happen to the industries that are the staple industries of the south-east,. It all depends on the decade we are discussing. In the 1950s the shipbuilding industry in Japan rose to prominence. In the 1960s we witnessed the rise of the Japanese steel and car industries. In the 1970s it was the consumer electronics industry. In the 1980s we are witnessing the rise of the Japanese high technology office equipment industry. In the 1990s I have no doubt that the Japanese will dominate the insurance, banking, finance and other service industries. Such industries presently dominate the economy of the south-east. Those industries give a completely false air of confidence to the opinions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who believes that this country can live with a shrinking manufacturing sector and an expanding service sector. That is complete fairyland economics and, will be proved totally wrong unless Conservative opinions are changed over the next four years. Unless such a change occurs we shall see what the Australians call ""The last night of the Poms"" come true. The Labour party does not believe in the cold shower philosophy that was applied to the outer regions of manufacturing in 1979–81. However, Conservative Members believe in that cold shower philosophy or, at least, defend what happened in 1979–81. They believe it was the greatest contributor to the expansion and improvement of efficiency in the economy of the country. They claim that, for years, Britain was inefficient and overmanned. However, after the cold shower of 1979–81 they claim that we have had nearly seven years of economic growth. They claim that that is all based on the gains in efficiency that have arisen from management's right to manage. The right to manage was established by creating a great pool of unemployment and by creating a new climate of realism forced by the decline in industry in 1979–81. However, if one considers the evidence it is difficult to ascertain whether there has been such an increase in efficiency. Indeed, last year's report of the British Institute of Management was headlined in the Financial Times: Manufacturers 'have failed to improve efficiency'. The article reported: United Kingdom manufacturing companies have shown no significant improvement in meeting delivery times and managing work-flow in their plants over the last 10 years, according to a survey published yesterday by the British Institute of Management. That report was not published in the 1960s or 1970s, but was published on 11 December 1986. It was a study conducted by the Cranfield school of management. That body and the British Institute of Management are in no way affiliated to the trade union movement or the Labour party. Such reports have not been published in magazines that are known to trumpet the views of the Labour party. Such reports can be taken as the expressions of totally neutral, totally professional people who have been looking for, but have failed to find what they expected from the hypothesis of increased efficiency supposedly arising from the cold shower of 1979–81. The slump of those years was engendered by the financial incompetence and blundering of the Conservative Government when they came to power in 1979. Either the Government did not know what they were doing or they planned a return to a 1930s-style slump to restore the management's right to manage—we do not know which. I believe that we should try to get back to the idea of a United Kingdom in which the service and manufacturing industries are seen to be interdependent. I believe that I have a certain amount of qualification to put forward that view. I have grocer antecedents, just like the Prime Minister, although in my case it was a grandfather and not a father. I also have coalminer antecedents, like the leader of my party, but, again, a grandfather not a father. Therefore, I am congenitally—if that is the correct word—able to express the argument for the interdependence of the service and manufacturing sectors. When I entered the House of Commons I became aware of the problem of the disunited kingdom. That is terribly well illustrated by the contrast between the Conservative and Opposition Benches. In the main, the central areas of the United Kingdom are represented by the Conservatives. In the main, the peripheral areas of the United Kingdom are represented by the Labour party, with one or two exceptions. When I came here I heard a great many rumours about the 50 Scottish Labour Members intending to break away—they called it a ""democratic fission"". Indeed, the day after I came to the House I misread a headline in The Independent that said: US Congress reaches deal with North"". I said to myself, ""Oh dear! The Scots are going their own way and now the north has decided that it would prefer  to be run by the United States because it does not go in for the sound money policies as harshly as the British Government"". However, having met the 69 new Labour Members and the 150 or so returning Labour Members I know that we believe in a United Kingdom. We hope that, over the next four years, Conservative Members will also come to realise that if we have an unhealthy manufacturing sector we shall be unable to run the country on the basis of the expansion in employment in insurance, banking and finance to a sufficient extent to carry this country through when North sea oil, a major economic resource, runs out. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is exceptionally satisfied with the state of the economy as he observes it today. All that we can say to that is: Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. In my region we believe that, if that is true, it is also true that rigor mortis is in the eye of the pathologist. Economic rigor mortis is what is faced by at least 3 million pathologists even on the Government's figures, every day of their lives.
