gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not know why I have been given an opportunity to speak so early in the debate. It may be due to the letter that I sent to your office, Mr. Deputy Speaker, on Friday, or to the fact that Martin Kettle, in The Sunday Times, referred to new Members of Parliament who had not made their maiden speeches. The Sunday Times referred to me as a tight-lipped Member of Parliament. I must be one of the select few to be described in that way. I hope that that reporter will note the actions rather than the rhetoric. However, I should be pleased to show him round my constituency. I thank the voters of Sheffield, Central for having given me the privilege to represent them in the House. Sheffield, Central is an area that I know well, as I was born and educated there, and also worked in the constituency. I obtained my first job at the age of 15 as an apprentice engineer in the steel works, where I continued to be employed until being elected to the European Parliament in 1979. On behalf of the old Sheffield, Park constituency, I should like to thank Fred Mulley, who served the constituency for about 30 years. He served the House in many capacities and gave loyal service to the Labour party for many years. Indeed, he was chairman of the party for two years. I wish him well, and a long and happy retirement. I thank the staff of the House and other Opposition Members for the valuable information that they have given to me. The pleasant manner of the staff, particularly in the Library—which is open for many hours—is highly commendable. There are some people from the Socialist group in the European Parliament in the Gallery tonight. If some of the staff of the House saw the conditions of service and remuneration offered at the European Parliament, they might become a little discontented. As the name implies, Sheffield, Central is in the centre of Sheffield. Like many industrial centres, Sheffield is experiencing great hardship, with high levels of unemployment. In some areas the figure is as high as 30 per cent. That information is based on the 1981 census. Many of those people worked in Sheffield's steel industry. Of the 17 worst districts in Sheffield, where unemployment was recorded as being more than 30 per cent., 16 are in the Sheffield, Central constituency. However, those are   the 1981 figures. Calculations now show unemployment to be well over 40 per cent. and, indeed, as high as 60 per cent. in some areas. Of the 5,900 school leavers in Sheffield this year, only 800 have full-time jobs. Over 10,000 young people in the city of Sheffield have never had a real job. I am speaking on behalf of a steel city. The principles and bases on which these documents have been presented, and which the Minister has explained, if adopted by the Government, will make the figures in Sheffield considerably worse in the coming years. One area has not been mentioned. Do the figures for tonnages that the Minister mentioned include Phoenix 2? We believe that an announcement will be made within the next few days. We also believe that Phoenix 2 will mean the closure of Hadfields, one of the major steel companies in Sheffield, with 800 redundancies. The workers in those factories have not been consulted on how their industry should develop. The management has been asked to sign documents on secrecy so that the announcement is not leaked to the shop floor. These redundancies will be in addition to the 21,000 people in Sheffield who have been made redundant since 1979. Many thousands are on short time working. The Government have gone out of their way to reduce the steel industry to ashes so that they can start resurrecting the Phoenix. The Government have gone like lambs to the slaughter to reorganise the steel industry at the dictates of the Common Market. I shall put that into context. We have not just lost the biggest slice of production capacity; we have borne more than 45 per cent. of the job losses sustained by the Common Market steel industry. We are the only major producer country within the EC to have reduced capacity between 1973 and 1982. West Germany has increased its capacity by 15 per cent., Italy by 41 per cent., France by 5 per cent., Belgium by 10 per cent., but the United Kingdom is minus 16 per cent. It is a tragedy for our steel industry. From being second in the league in 1972, we became fourth in 1982. Conservative Members seem to put a great deal of emphasis on state subsidy, and the Minister has referred to it. State involvement in steel production does not reveal the whole of the Government's interest. If account is taken of state contribution to fuel charges, freight charges, unemployment, short-time working payments, and assistance to research and development, public support for the British Steel Corporation amounts to £11 per tonne compared with the average figure for the EC of £15 per tonne, for West Germany £15, France £18 and Belgium £19. It is against that historical background of about 10 years that we are asked to follow the principles embodied in the state aid document and also the evaluation of the steel industry by the EC. A collapse of EUROFER has clearly been spelt out in the press over the past two or three weeks. It is the main organ upon which the Commission was relying to obtain a consensus in the industry. It is absurd for the Minister to say that he will put pressure on the Germans and the Italians when the very instrument by which that pressure was to be brought is failing in front of our eyes. We are now told that we are to bear a further reduction of 500,000 tonnes. Is the reduction in capacity under  Phoenix 2 included in those figures, or will another 90,000 tonnes of capacity be taken out of United Kingdom engineering steels at the request of the EC? The Government's attitude in the negotiations across the English Channel has been one of sheer capitulation for five years. It has left our industry in a sorry state. The ex-chairman of Hadfields, in a book on the public sector published two or three weeks ago, said that the United Kingdom should get out of bulk steel making. If one continues to reduce capacity much below 11 million ingot tonnes, the question mark over the industry rears its head. Some 90 per cent. of special steels are produced in Rotherham and Sheffield. That is an important sector of the steel industry. It supplies steel for high technology industries such as aerospace and energy. Import penetration was less than 12 per cent. in 1972, but from 1972 to the early 1980s it ranged from 50 per cent. to 55 per cent. Those figures are confirmed by the Commission. That has been the level of penetration in special steels, such as high speed steel, tool steel and stainless steel. When people talk about the development of new technology and its application, they should look seriously at the continuation of a fully developed special steels sector. The special steels sector of Sheffield made sure that the RB211 got into the air. It produced the quality of steel that would withstand the heat exchanges and stresses that the engine placed on it. Such development is now being lost not only in Sheffield but in the United Kingdom. For people to say that we can run down the bulk steel and low alloy side of the industry and keep the special steels sector going is nonsense. Many people in the steel industry believe that, too. The United States has now placed import controls on the special steels sector. The private sector alone is exporting 10 per cent. of its production to the United States. The cost to BSC, through the imposition of a 20 per cent. duty, will be over £100 million. What restraints has the EC brought under GAIT? Very few. There is a danger that in the negotiations global imports and exports will be considered and that special steels may be put into that equation not as special steels, but as an amount of money. That will be extremely damaging. I ask the Government to consider seriously the basis of the Commission's documents. The Minister has already had discussions. The documents do not give the answer. Looking at the long-term trends of the British steel industry, one sees no answer. In 1981, the Minister of State said: The phasing out of aids and the elimination of excess and uncompetitive capacity can be done only on the basis of multilateral agreement if the burden of the necessary restructuring is to be fairly shared.""—[Official Report, 28 July 1981; Vol. 9, c. 1103.] Is the basis for the figures for the past 10 years a fair one on which to take a further cut of 500,000 tonnes? It will inevitably mean further redundacies for steel workers in the private and public sectors.
