gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In June I was privileged to be elected by the people of Mid-Norfolk, an extra constituency formed by the Boundary Commission to cater for Norfolk's expanding population. The constituency has three parents—my hon. Friends the Members for Norfolk, South-West (Sir P. Hawkins) and Norfolk, North (Mr. Howell), whose robust east Anglian dedication and independence are admired as much in the House as throughout Norfolk, and the former Member for Yarmouth, Sir Anthony Fell, whose spirit and single-mindedness are missed as much here as in Norfolk. Whereas the old Norfolk, Central constituency, once ably represented by my right hon. Friend the Member for Chesham and Amersham (Sir I. Gilmour), was shaped like a polo mint around Norwich, Mid-Norfolk resembles a  banana to the east, north and west of that city. The three historic market towns, Acle, Aylsham and Dereham form focal points in each direction. My constituency proudly boasts some of the finest farmers and farm workers in Britain. Yet over the years more jobs have sprung from light industry, food processing and tourism on the unique Broads—compliments to the refreshing approaches of the Breckland and Broadland district councils, to small businesses, and to the labour force of Norfolk, which is one of the finest there is. Thank goodness I am never allowed to overlook the fact that nearly one quarter of my electorate are old age pensioners. Many millions of pensioners have suffered over the years because the occupational pension system has been less than correct. The stayers have suffered in favour of the early leavers. That cannot be right, so I welcome the announcement yesterday by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Social Services. I hope that he will be prepared to go further at some stage in this Parliament. We have plenty to learn from other countries—notably the United States. I trust that the Treasury is giving all possible support and encouragement to the Department of Health and Social Security in that direction. However, today we are debating public spending—a subject of some interest to me in a previous incarnation. I shall allude to three points about the system rather than the substance of policy. I accept that the distinction is not always a sharp one. First, there should be a popular debate on the options on public spending open to the Treasury and the sooner the better. Originally I questioned the desirability of Treasury involvement in that debate because so much financial information is already available to institutes and forecasters and because I doubted the wisdom of the Treasury engaging in those activities. However, without the Treasury's involvement during the summer and early autumn, a debate failed to materialise, so now its participation is essential. If the Treasury produces a Green Paper, or something akin to one, every Cabinet Minister should be consulted in full and the parameters agreed, for in the end it serves Governments no better for Cabinet Ministers to be labelled purely as protectors of their Departments than it does for them to be categorised as prisoners. While I would not venture to prophesy the outcome of a public debate on this subject, at least the interest group auction, which is as damaging to the political fabric as the use of monopoly power, would be set in a clearer context. That can only be for the common good. Secondly, I concede that cash limits, although not cash planning, have nearly reached their frontiers. Family practitioners and the Metropolitan police may yet, I hope, succumb. Because there is a distinction between control and forecasting, it is vital for the forecasters in the demand—determined sectors of the DHSS to improve the accuracy of their estimates. Hitherto, under the Government, they have been less than perfect, and from time to time the Ministry of Defence has been little better. The task is made no easier, I admit, when defence prices are rising faster than the rate of inflation. Thirdly, I hope that developments in the scope of the contingency reserve will prove to be a useful additional means of controlling spending. Its extension to cover   changes in estimated costs of existing commitments in the demand-led sector will be watched by many with the closest interest. East Anglians are by nature cautious, sceptical and independent. If convinced, they can be direct. I hope that those characteristics, among others, will stand me in goodstead in the House.
