gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I request the indulgence of the House to make my maiden speech? In line with the customs of this House, I wish to refrain from controversial matters. I find that very difficult, because I was fortunate enough to hear the speech of the right hon. Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), which in itself provoked controversy. That speech was very much in line in a new Parliament with the old naked Tory policy;  it was only relieved by artistic cleverness. Indeed, it was in line with what most of the Conservative candidates had said during the General Election. If there was one thing that was obvious in the General Election, it was that Toryism cum spurious Liberalism cum vote-catching devices cut no ice with the electorate but showed up the nakedness of the Tory economic and social policy. I know that right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite must be grateful because their Parliamentary representation has increased, but I suggest to them that they have more cause for fervent self-congratulation in not being called upon to form a Government and thus to practise what they"" preached. One of the speeches in this Debate' which interested me a great deal was that of the hon. Member for the Hallam Division of Sheffield (Mr. Jennings), in part of which he dealt with the iron and steel industry. As there was a full discussion of that very important industry yesterday, I hope the House will excuse me from now going into the controversial matters which were decided last night. I only want to say, in passing, that in my opinion the decision taken last night must have been almost as great a relief to the Opposition as it was to the Government, because there were prospects of another General Election in the immediate future, with the difficulties of Conservative candidates having to explain to the electorate their attitude towards iron and steel. Let me return to the speech of the hon. Member for Hallam, who unfortunately is not in his place. The other day he said that he had been returned to this House by the votes of some iron and steel workers. That may be true, but I venture to tell him through the OFFICIAL REPORT, if he will read my speech, that had he been entirely dependent upon the votes of iron and steel workers he would probably have lost his deposit. I say to him, as I say to the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington (Mr. Eden), who also referred to the iron and steel industry, that iron and steel workers cannot be represented from either Warwick and Leamington or even Hallam in Sheffield; representation for iron and steel workers is not to be found in that type of residential area in this country. They, therefore, cannot speak for iron and steel workers as I speak for them, for I represent the Brightside Division of Sheffield, which is composed almost wholly of steel workers. I am very proud to say this. I believe the iron and steel workers of Brightside and Sheffield would want to congratulate the Government on their uncompromising attitude towards the nationalisation of the iron and steel industry, and that they will welcome with joy the result of the Division last night. I really rose today to speak on something much more important at the moment, and that is the problem of the price level, which was mentioned by the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington. As a new Member, I remember being confronted in the election, on every side, with tremendous posters issued by the Conservative Party saying: Fight The Rising Cost of Living: Vote Conservative. In the last Parliament the right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington advocated a reduction in the food subsidies, and I assert that his advocacy of such a reduction is a contradiction of the poster issued by the Conservative Party. A reduction of food subsidies would only automatically increase the price level. The right hon. Gentleman cannot have it both ways; either he must cleave to the one and desert the other, or alternatively indulge in conflicting ideas and confusing thoughts. I believe that an examination of the price level is vitally necessary in the interests of the whole country, and that it should be a priority consideration of His Majesty's Government. The whole of our national economy is dependent upon a solution of this problem; real wages, exports, recovery, security and prosperity are all dependent upon finding a solution to the price level problem. The right hon. Member for Warwick and Leamington could not cure the evils of the price-level by monkeying about with food subsidies. The clue to a reduction in prices lies in the word ""distribution,"" and an examination into that aspect of our national economy is badly needed. Let me make it clear that I am not indicting the men and women who work 'behind the shop counters; I believe they have done a first-class job of work in very difficult circumstances. I have been  connected with distribution all my life, and I know it, and I say that in the realm of distribution there are people—intermediaries we call them—who toil not, neither do they spin; And yet…even Solomon in all his glory was not ""— camouflaged as they are. I am saving the good wine for the last; this is the sting in the tail. From time to time Members of Parliament are inundated with requests from all kinds of organisations asking them to support this, that and the other. I have been inundated with requests to oppose the proposed Census of Distribution. Well, I hope that His Majesty's Government will go for- ward with the Census of Distribution, only to give us a much clearer picture of the world of distribution that we ever had before. The Government should continue with this proposal and conduct the census. It has been twice postponed, and its application is long overdue. It will serve to give us a greater knowledge of the distributive trades; it will indicate the waste and chaos in distribution; and it will materially assist to remove the anomalies which are reflected in the price level. The one thing we have to keep in mind is the wide and growing gap between the costs of production and the retail price level.
