gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of the House on the occasion of my maiden speech. I should like to start by saying how conscious I am that my election was   made possible by the loss to the House of a Member who was widely respected on both sides. I shall not attempt to follow previous speakers in the debate, because today I must not be contentious. However, I should like to refer to a matter which was discussed briefly yesterday. I refer to the possibility of, as it was said, women taking their seats among the Lords. When I heard this matter discussed I was reminded of the story of the last time that a group of women took their seat among the Lords. Although this happened a long time ago, I would like shortly to relate the story, because one of the women concerned was a resident of North Dorset. It is officially recorded that about the year 1306 King Edward I convened a Parliament to which he summoned his Lords, his Commons and also his Prelates, as the custom then was. He summoned them to Westminster, to appear concilio nostro apud Westminster, that is to say, to take their seats in the Old Westminster Hall. Tradition has it that in those days Prelates and Lords sat in one part of the Hall and the Commons in another. It is a matter of history that on that unique occasion a summons to appear was sent to the Abbess of Shaftesbury and to three other Abbesses, and it is a matter of tradition that, having been summoned to appear ""apud"" Westminster, ""apud"" Westminster they went and took their seats, among the other Prelates, with the Lords. History makes it perfectly clear that they were never asked to come again, but history does not record why, which, of course, remains a matter of speculation. The Abbey over which the lady ruled is now a ruin, but the broad acres with which it was endowed are still the centre of a busy agricultural community which I have the honour to represent. Agriculture is of the greatest importance to North Dorset, and agriculture and its auxiliary industries and horticulture are really the most important industries in my constituency. Therefore, I wish to welcome the statement in the Gracious Speech that the Government intend to continue supporting agriculture. I know that many people ask why agriculture, of all our industries, needs to have what we call support prices and what are sometimes called subsidies. I know many  people think that because foreign food is sold very cheaply here in Britain it follows that it must have been produced very cheaply by the foreign producers. Statistics to which I shall refer show that this is not always the case. The United Nations has published figures of great interest which are available to hon. Members in the Library in the monthly bulletins of agricultural and economic statistics. It would be very wrong for me on this occasion to detain the House with a great list of figures, however important. But perhaps it is worth noticing that if we take an average for the last three years for which complete figures are given the British wheat grower is shown to be one of the lowest paid in the world. This was so interesting to me that I referred the matter to the Department of my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and asked if it were right to say, as the United Nations did, that these figures included all British support prices and subsidies. I got back a most helpful answer assuring me that this was the case. This being so, I can say with confidence that the only country which during those three years which was paid less for its wheat than Birtain was Canada, which received less to the tune of 17 American cents per metric ton of wheat. Butter and cheese were formerly articles of great importance to the small farmers in my constituency. They used to augment their incomes by turning milk into butter and cheese and making a little profit that way. But this can no longer be done, and the United Nations figures show that British farm prices for butter are the lowest in the world. They further show that the French farmer gets actually 92 per cent. more for his butter on the three-year average than is paid to the British farmer. Regarding cheese, it was announced only last week that the farm cheese price is now less than before the war. The British farm cheese price for Cheddar cheese was said to be 80 per cent. of what it was in 1938, and I can think of no other commodity of which that would be true. It is interesting to note that, on the United Nations figures, the Italian farmer is shown as being paid on a three-year average 106 per cent. more than the British farmer for cheese. I do not want to weary the House with more figures, but it is right to say that there is another side to this question. On two commodities only have British farmers benefited according to these United Nations figures. They show that for eggs the French farmer gets 4·7 per cent. less than the British farmer and that for milk the Italian farmer gets 5 per cent. less. For every other commodity supplied for human consumption, the balance of advantage is with the Continental farmer. That being the case, it may be asked, how is that that foreign food is sold so very cheaply in this country? We are the lowest paid butter producers in the world, but we import 5,000 tons of butter every year. The answer is, I think, that foreign food is sold in this country at an artificial and false price, below the price that the farmer who produces it is paid for producing it. The reason for this, I think, is that some countries have a surplus of agricultural products which they have to sell somewhere and they compete with each other as to how to sell them; and because we are the biggest market for food in the world, they compete with each other to sell their surplus food to us. To give one example of this, the price of French wheat two years ago off Avonmouth was £23 a ton. The French farmer producing it was paid over £37 a ton on the United Nations figures. I think that gives the true picture. The real position is that a great quantity of imported food is sold here, not only at less than the farmer who produces it was paid for producing it, but in some cases less than it could be produced by any farmer in any part of the world. If that be accepted, it is clear that, so long as this position continues, British farmers will have to have the help of some kind of subsidy or support price. The British community benefits enormously by buying this cheap food, and it is right and proper that it should. But what benefits the rest of the community would be a great cause of loss to the farmer if he were not supported or aided in some way. So I suggest that these support prices are neither a badge of sloth nor a cloak for inefficiency. They are part of a system under which we buy our food so cheaply that it is necessary to help our farmers with these  support prices. For all these reasons, and because of the importance of agriculture and horticulture to North Dorset, I welcome the phrases in the Gracious Speech which indicate continued Government support for these industries.
