gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On this, the first occasion on which I have the honour to address the House, I must ask for the indulgence usually shown to hon. Members speaking for the first time. I do not have the ordeal of addressing a full House, but I do have the ordeal of keeping within the extremely narrow terms that have been set for this debate. If I venture to make some preliminary remarks, which are usually acceptable in a maiden speech but which will tonight undoubtedly go a little outside the rules that have been laid down, then, again, I crave indulgence. When I first came here I was given a good deal of advice about a maiden speech. I was told, first, that one should not make it too soon; second, that one should not leave it too late and, third, that it was desirable—though not essential—to know something of what one was speaking about. As to the last, I served for twenty-one years in the Royal Air Force and, as a result, I do not regard the annual renewal of the Air Force Act as a matter only of routine. I have the honour to represent Norfolk, Central, and that constituency—and East Anglia in general—both topographically and geographically, has quite properly been a cradle for Service aviation. Early in the war, when I was serving with a bomber squadron at Feltwell, we flew on our missions to Europe over the lovely fields and country, part of which I now have the honour to represent here. East Anglia is acquainted not only with aviation, but with defence. Going right back to the times of the Vikings and the Danelaw, it has always been a salient towards the enemy. The people of East Anglia also have recent experience of defence matters, as is evidenced by the great network of war-time airfields in East Anglia, which for the most part are now, happily, under agricultural cultivation. If I may stretch your patience a little further on this subject, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, after which I will go to the point at issue, I wish to refer to the fact that the Norwich Aero Club is one of the  oldest flying clubs in the country. It has been homeless and on hard days for some time. It has now found a home, but I hope that on another and more appropriate occasion it will be possible to put it to my right hon. Friend that he might consider whether the Norwich Aero Club may not find a home eventually at the airfield of Horsham St. Faith, which is now not as operational as it was. We are discussing, among other things, the discipline of the Royal Air Force. The flying discipline of the Royal Air Force is dealt with briefly in the Air Force Act. Only three provisions deal with flying discipline as such. Section 46-states that Any person subject to air-force-law who … (b) by negligence loses or damages any of Her Majesty's aircraft … (c) is guilty of any act or neglect likely to cause damage to or the loss of any of Her Majesty's aircraft or aircraft material … shall, on conviction by court-martial … suffer a penalty not exceeding two years' imprisonment. Section 49 applies a similar penalty to those who by neglect in the use of Her Majesty's aircraft or aircraft material cause risk of loss of life or injury to other persons. I wish briefly to draw the attention of the House to the conditions under which the aircrew of the Royal Air Force have to observe, and be governed by, those three provisions which I have quoted. I want to draw attention to the extreme complexity of modern aircraft, because it is in those aircraft that the aircrew have to discharge their duties and keep within the law which this House this afternoon proposes to continue. This complexity applies to all types of Service aircraft, whether training, transport or operational, but it is, of course, the operational types which are most complex. It applies to bombers with a crew of five or six just as to fighters with a crew of one or two, because although the bombers are much more complex, the fighters have fewer men, hands, heads and eyes to operate them. A modern aircraft in which the aircrew have to discharge these duties and observe these laws is virtually a flying power-house. Whereas originally, in the days when, perhaps, my right hon. Friend and I learnt to fly, an aircraft had in   it simply an engine and a method of control of the airframe, it is now a mass of complex systems affecting the flying controls, the electrical systems, the pressurisation, the fuel, and so on. The management of the great powerful engines is an undertaking in itself. The armaments system and the systems for priming and dropping the bombs, and for aiming the bombs, guns and rockets are in themselves highly complex systems. In that respect, the duties of aircrew of the Royal Air Force are that much more demanding than the duties of civil airline crews. There is a great complexity of instruments and intricate drill which must be followed, placing a great responsibility and a great task upon the captains and the crew, who, if they transgress under these conditions, will still be subject to the laws and penalties which we are to continue this afternoon. They have to perform these duties in clothing which is constricted, complicated and cumbersome—inevitably so; clothing which must keep them warm and which must also keep them cool; clothing which must protect them in extremes of temperature or when descending into the sea and which must protect them in cockpit conditions of pressurisation and temperature which have continually to be watched and which, in the event of a quite small failure, will immediately precipitate a crisis. Furthermore, they have to carry out these duties when subject to the force of gravity and when travelling at speeds equivalent to, or greater than, that of sound. These things will, of course, be more so in the future so long as manned aircraft continue. While these things are true in peacetime, there is in the background the potential responsibility that Air Force crews, and particularly bomber crews, would have to undertake in war, when they would have under their hand, on our behalf, immense power. How are these duties being discharged? I cannot get figures of accidents, which would, of course, be subject to prosecution under the provisions of the Act which I have mentioned. Probably rightly, they are a matter of security. Possibly, my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State, if he replies  to this discussion, will be able to say something about them. From my own observation, however, based in recent years on activities in the aircraft industry and particularly of Bomber Command of the Royal Air Force, it seems to me that an extraordinarily high standard of flying discipline has been achieved and is being maintained, a degree of flying discipline which, it would be fair to say, would have been quite unheard of at the beginning of the 'thirties when I learnt to fly. I believe that this satisfactory state of affairs is due in the first place to the high calibre of the crews—and how right it is that a very high standard of recruitment should be imposed. It also stems from the very high standard of leadership of all ranks, particularly the commanders and the higher commanders. After all, one of their principal duties is to impose discipline, including flying discipline. It is noticeable that the higher commanders of the Royal Air Force are of the first calibre and are closely acquainted with, and expert themselves in, the whole business of flying, which makes them particularly suitable for the administration of flying discipline. That satisfactory state of affairs springs from a general devotion to duty which the Royal Air Force has always had. It springs especially from the remarkably high standard of training which obtains in the Air Force today, which certainly did not obtain in the years before the war simply because, in the state of knowledge of the art at that time, it was not possible to bring an air force to such a high standard of training. Admittedly, the Service may be a little more sober-minded than it was. The days are long past when it was said that for the Army an order was an order, but for the Air Force it was an excuse for an argument. Those days are long past, and I do not think that we should regret them. I have ventured to make these points because it is very easy for the disciplinary side of the Royal Air Force to get adverse publicity. It used to be so over low flying. Now it may be a case of an Air Force aircraft inadvertently going rather close to an airliner containing some hon. Members. However, there are many hon. Members who understand these things, no one better than my right hon. Friend, who is himself an aviator   and who has great experience at the Air Ministry. I hope that he will agree that it is right, even on this somewhat limited occasion, to say something about which we hear all too seldom, namely, the extraordinary high standard of flying discipline which obtains in the Royal Air Force. I think that I speak for all hon. Members, whatever their opinions on defence, when I say that we regard that aspect of the Royal Air Force's activities with pride and admiration. A maiden speech is one in which, I suppose, one should say something which comes near to one's heart. I therefore make no apology for having dealt with this matter and for having paid a tribute to the aircrews of the Royal Air Force, upon whose readiness, steadiness and devotion to duty and upon whose courage and skill the future safety of these islands must now chiefly depend.
