gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I begin with some trepidation. It will never be easy to follow the hon. Member for Birmingham, Perry Barr (Mr. Rooker), least of all in a maiden speech. Also, and I am terrified to think about it, he may be able to discover something in my speech which he may feel is unfavourable to my Government and their Budget. With great respect to the hon. Member, it is with much greater trepidation that I follow in the footsteps of my predecessor, Dan Awdry. He was the Member for Chippenham for nearly 17 years, and Chippenham could not have had a more conscientious and effective constituency Member. He is a Christian, a civilised and charming man and I am sure that the House will miss him. There is a piece from Edmund Burke that seems to sum up Dan Awdry and his approach to politics. It is that in order to perform the part of a citizen wisely and well, it is necessary To bring the dispositions that are lovely in private life into the service and conduct of the commonwealth, so to be patriots and not to forget we are gentlemen. I believe that Dan Awdry in his public life certainly lived up to that. I am the fifth of my line out of the last seven to sit in this House. However, the last four were Members for Down, South. I thought that I might be enlightened by reading the maiden speeches of my predecessors. Unfortunately, I did not get very far. The first, apparently, said nothing, the second said nothing, the third—in the 10 years that he spent in this place—managed to get in a sentence, and the last made his maiden speech about three weeks before the electors of Down, South kicked him out. However, there is one consolation—the omissions of my ancestors have been more than made up for by the present right hon. Member for Down, South (Mr. Powell). My constituency of Chippenham is wide, varied and beautiful. It would take the whole of the debate to describe even a small part of it adequately. Therefore, I should like to touch briefly on three issues. The first is the development of our towns and villages, particularly Swindon Much of the development is subject  to a public inquiry which is now before the Minister. It is obviously controversial and, as the matter is sub judice, I will say very little about it. There has to be a correct balance, however, between the expansion of towns such as Swindon that have not grown as fast as was expected and Wootton Bassett which has grown much faster than anticipated. There are also small villages which are in danger of losing their community identities as schools close and many of the inhabitants become commuters. Secondly, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the level of poverty in rural areas. Listening to Labour Members, one could be forgiven for imagining that some of them believe that Wiltshire is populated almost exclusively by retired colonels living on inflation-proof pensions and by wealthy land-owners. Unfortunately, nothing is further from the truth. Many elderly people living in country areas have great trouble travelling. Transport is expensive and in some instances non-existent. Many such people are widowed and live in their own homes. They find it increasingly difficult to keep their homes in good repair and to pay the rates. For many of these old people, the most important contact with the outside world is their television, the licence for which they find increasingly hard to budget for. I hope that the Government will bear those points in mind when the rate support grant is altered. I hope that they will stop penalising country areas at the expense of others, which is what happened under the previous Administration. Thirdly, I wish to refer to the pig industry. Forty-five thousand people are directly employed in the pig industry in this country—44,900 now because the slaughterhouse of Harris's in Calne has been closed down recently. I appreciate that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is negotiating hard for a 5 per cent. reduction in the value of the green pound and that he is making strenuous efforts to help the pig industry. However, the French, as usual, have already protected their industry. We must take urgent action to restore fair competition and to recover from the past three years when the influx of Dutch, Danish and Irish bacon caused so much harm. Even   if the Minister succeeds in his endeavours, we still have to face the restructuring and recapitalisation of the industry. I am sure that the Government do not wish to add a lame-pig policy to a lame-duck policy. I believe that the Chancellor has spelt out the dangers of our position in his Budget. There can be no doubt that Britain hovers on the edge of an abyss of absolute decline. It is not for me, in my maiden speech, to be controversial or to take issue with the right hon. Member for Down, South. Nevertheless, a country that is in danger of growing at less than 1 per cent. of its gross national product is not producing sufficient wealth to replace its capital stock. Surely, if capital stock is not replaced, that country is on the verge of economic decline. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has set out the four principles behind his strategy and he has bravely tried to alter the course followed by the economy under the previous Government. I agree with those principles, but I hope that during this Parliament it will be possible to add another principle—greater participation by people at work. That is an area of industrial practice which we ignore at our peril. Even now, I have the feeling that the impetus towards greater participation at work is beginning to falter. It is sad that the trade unions have never had a concerted voice on the matter. Although they have contributed much to the rights, freedoms and privileges of working people, they have become stuck in then-contribution to industrial development over the past 30 years. Whatever else one may say about free collective bargaining, the dialectic behind it has hardly led to a new industrial synthesis. Management has also done too little to introduce the techniques of Macgregor and Herzberg. Money and the fear of the sack are too often used, even today, as the major motivators behind people at work. The psychology of work has not been fully understood in the boardrooms of Britain. I cannot honestly say that Governments of either party, or, indeed, the House itself, have distinguished themselves in promoting wider employee participation. Perhaps that will change next week when  we debate the plans for Select Committees. There is a small precedent. I know that the right hon. Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey) does not often get praise from Conservative Benches, but he introduced a measure on financial participation which won the approval of the whole House—though I am not sure how keen the right hon. Gentleman was on it at the time. I should like to see the Government take a much more active role in promoting all forms of participation. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Employment, when he was in Opposition, talked about a code of practice, and I hope that he has not forgotten that. I hope that managements will do more about disclosure of information and industrial relations training and will put more stress on the importance of human relations. I hope that the trade unions will use their undoubted powers and privileges to take up the right of their members to be more involved in their work, both personally and financially. I hope that we shall see in this Parliament the start of a movement in which the British people will at last start to work together in the face of ever-increasing economic uncertainty. The future of political democracy will not remain secure for ever unless the British people find a common purpose in their place of work. There is nothing in the present structure of our society to stop that happening. One of the ways that the Government won the votes of the people at the last election was by appealing to their pockets. The next election must be won by making sure that we retain the people's confidence and that we have started to establish at work the freedoms that they have long enjoyed in their private lives.
