gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with temerity as a newcomer to this House to speak for the first time, and I ask for the indulgence of the House. I should like first to say a personal word, on how pleased I am to represent my constituency in this House, because my father had the privilege and honour of representing it from 1922 to 1938, when he died. I was not going to speak so early in this Parliament, because I have had a lot of advice about waiting a while, but I represent a constituency in which fishing is the major industry, and the fishing industry, as we have already heard in the Debate, is in a very serious way. I feel, therefore, that I cannot too soon put in a word on its behalf. Fleetwood, the port I represent, is definitely falling on bad times. Already 30 out of the 130 trawlers we have there have been laid up. I know that this is a bad time of the year for crews and trawlers, but nevertheless this serious event is already beginning to have its effect, because the unemployment of the fishermen is definitely causing economic trouble to the shopkeepers and traders in the town. People seem to think that if one industry is going badly in a town some other one will help it out, but in Fleetwood the only other industry, apart from the fishing, is that of a seaside resort with its illuminations—and as to those, we are slightly ""out-lighted"" by Blackpool, which is close to us. The fishing industry is having a raw deal. Since the beginning of the war the Government of the day have always bought a lot of reserves of frozen fish which they could let out during the times when other foods were scarce. Last year the Government really did over-buy to a fantastic degree. I imagine they did so because they wanted to safeguard themselves when Argentina was being very difficult over the meat deal. However, it means now that they have to get rid of those supplies, which they are doing, and that is causing all the fresh fish which is being caught to be sold for a very low price, thus creating a great deal of hardship in the industry. Expenses in connection with trawlers are going up quite fantastically, and during last winter between 75 per cent. and 90 per cent. of the trawlers which  arrived in Fleetwood were definitely losing money. Nothing could be put back with which to buy new ships or for repairs, and money was definitely being lost on running costs. The trawler owners have also been hard hit by the fact that some of them, at the instigation of the Government, turned over to the use of oil instead of coal. Since they were asked to do that, the price of oil, as a result of devaluation, has gone up by 40 per cent. They have now been told that, in spite of these rising costs, from 15th April onwards nothing is going to be done to help them. Foreigners seem to be better treated than our own people. In 1938, they were allowed to import about 1½million cwt. of fish. Now they are allowed to import over 3½million cwt., and, after 15th April, no one can tell how much they will be allowed to import. The Government have not yet informed the industry whether there are to be any restrictions upon the importation of fish. Our own trawlers cannot export to foreign countries because most of them refuse to receive our exports. We accept theirs, but they will not accept ours. Before the war, we did a lot of exporting of various types of fish which were not wanted in this country, but which were wanted in France, Belgium, Holland and Norway. Now, when our trawlers go to those countries, they are turned away. We cannot help that, but we hope that when the Government are discussing trade with these countries, the case for the fishing industry of England will be put forward. One way in which foreigners are helped in England and our fishermen are not, is in respect of fishing nets. It is a slightly technical point. Foreigners are allowed to come here and buy manilla nets, which last very much longer. Our own fishermen are not allowed to buy them. They have to buy sisal nets, which do not last so long and, therefore, make their running costs heavier than those of the foreigner. The Government floated a loan with Iceland so that they could build more trawlers. That might have been done to help foreign policy, and it might also have been done to help our shipyards; but Iceland has 32 new trawlers in operation, and some on the stocks in this country; yet it is one of those countries which have not signed the over-fishing   agreement of 1946. It looks as if they are being given every encouragement to go on. If we want some practical means of helping them, I suggest that we should import from Iceland some of their salted fish, which we cannot provide, and we should re-export it for them, as we did before the war. If we do not take some measure of control over these imports from Iceland, I am certain that our industry will suffer very much indeed. It may be thought from my remarks that our industry has not been working very hard. I can assure the House that it has. As everyone knows, fish and all food are in very great demand in this country today. The fishing industry of Britain is providing 500,000 cwt. more fish than it did before the war. Even though that figure looks good, it cannot be maintained when we have unlimited imports from abroad. We shall not be able to do so. That is the position of the industry. I should like to make one or two suggestions as to how I think we can help it. First of all, we must protect our fishermen. Our other home producers of food, the agriculturists, are well protected, and quite rightly so. Possibly in some respects they could be looked after a little more. Horticulture also is now to be looked after—in my opinion quite rightly—in that certain soft fruits are not to be imported at times when we can produce them. Why, then, should the fisherman be left out in the cold with no one to look after him? He must be helped. Let us limit the imports of foreign fish, and at the same time set up a marketing board for white fish, such as there is for the herring industry. With some such plan, I am certain conditions will be better. I was very pleased to see in the Gracious Speech that the Government intend that there shall be better conditions for the crews of trawlers. Probably the only way in which good conditions can be obtained for these crews is by building new trawlers, but there is no possibility of having new trawlers built unless those in the industry can pay their way. Unless those in the industry are given help, which they will not get after 15th April, they will not be able to pay their way, the industry will  go down, and we shall have no more trawlers with these better conditions. I am certain that the Socialist Party as a whole believe in this, because in the pamphlet ""Labour Believes in Britain"" they say: Our fishing fleets bring us food. They are a vital part of Britain's defence. They must never again be allowed to decline. I maintain that unless the Government take some quick and drastic action, they will decline, and that there is no other way of stopping it. I do not intend to go in detail into the life of a fisherman, because all hon. Members know the terrific difficulties and hardships he has to put up with. He has to live in the worst climatic conditions, and we must do everything we can to help him. Let us also remember that in time of war—and we all earnestly pray we shall not have another—the fishermen not only procure food, which is always short in this country in time of war, but also go out in their trawlers to sweep away mines. I therefore earnestly ask the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries to see that prompt action is taken so that the fishing industry, one of our greatest and oldest industries, can prosper once again.
