gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Field) on his maiden speech and on the lucid way in which he put forward his points. One may disagree with his aims and his conclusions, but one must admit that it is a privilege for the House to have an expert in a particular line to address it as he has done this afternoon. To make a maiden speech is obviously an occasion of enormous personal significance for a new Member. I should like to follow the traditions, first, by being non-controversial and, second, by paying tribute to the great kindness and help that I have had from existing Members since I came to the House. They could not have been kinder or more helpful, and I, like other new Members, appreciate it. I wish to pay sincere tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Edward Bishop. He was and is a sincere and moderate man. In office he served his country and his constituency well. He was in every respect a gentle man and was much appreciated and respected by his constituents of all political persuasions. My constituency of Newark is in Mid-Nottinghamshire. It has its rolling acres and its beautiful countryside. I am sure that all new Members of Parliament think that their constituencies are the most beautiful. Newark has collieries and heavy industry and an expanding element of light industry. In short, it is a typical Midlands constituency. King John died there 763 years ago. But, as King John, like the rest of us, had to die somewhere,  perhaps that is no matter of great moment. What is important—and hon. Members may not know this—is that Mr. Gladstone was first elected for Newark, I think in 1832. He was of course elected as a Conservative. Whatever my political ambitions in this House may be, I always regarded his politics as slightly suspect and I have no intention of following his example. I mentioned that in my constituency there are a number of coal mines and I have no doubt that I stand here with the support of very many members of the mining community. This was certainly the case in the constituency of Ashfield, which adjoins mine. That constituency was sensible enough at a by-election to return Mr. Tim Smith. He could have been elected only with the votes of the mining community, and I very much hope that we will see Tim Smith back in this House very soon. The point I am making is that the mining community was concerned, as those of us on the Tory Benches are, about the size and the shape of the tax burden which until recently this country had to bear. The work of the miner is hard, dangerous and skilful and in many cases it is highly paid. The Chancellor's objective before the Budget, and I believe during and after it, was to strike a chord within the mining community. However, there is no magic formula. There is no secret of eternal life and success except to create a climate in which all people can prosper regardless of the jobs that they do. Governments must realise that they are in existence to serve and encourage people. Their purpose is not to promote abstract theories of the Left or the Right. We must motivate the individual and not make him feel that he is part of a treadmill from which he cannot escape. I believe that it must be worth while to have as a prime motive the building up of something in one's life to hand over to one's children and successors, whether in business or in family life. There are few motives more worthy than to want to hand over something of oneself to one's children. Hon. Members on the Opposition Benches may on occasion stigmatise the objective of acquiring something in order to pass it on as inherited wealth. It is   not inherited wealth at all. It is income derived from savings which have already borne swingeing taxation. I therefore welcome generally the proposals in the Budget, but, without wishing to travel down the path which was described in this House the other day as that of rebellion, may I point out one or two defects in the Budget? I looked for some way of encouraging the expansion of the agriculture industry. Present taxation policies bear hardly on those who want to hand over a farm. They also bear hardly on those who want to acquire a farm. It is quite unrealistic to expect any young man without private means to acquire perhaps £250,000 with which to buy his own viable farm. I believe that we should remove the obstacles, through the capital transfer tax system in particular, in the way of young men trying to get on to the farming ladder. I welcome the proposal for war widows' pensions. I believe, however, that the position of widows generally remains unsatisfactory and that it should be re-viewed. Immediately she becomes a widow a woman is taxed as a single person and pays VAT as a single person. What is there in this Budget for the widow? I venture to suggest not a great deal, although she has responsibilities that single people do not usually have, such as children, their education, and even dependent relatives from both sides of the family. She pays a higher mortgage than most single people have to pay. I hope that her position will be reviewed urgently and soon. I should have liked to see a mention in the Budget of the reduction of stamp duty on domestic conveyances. The figure of £15,000 at which duty becomes payable is quite unrealistic these days. A large proportion of houses cost in excess of £15,000 and the duty rises at an enormous rate. For example, if one buys a house for £31,000 the duty payable to the State is some £600. I belive that that is too much. I hope that the Chancellor's arithmetic is correct when he says that the increases to pensioners will more than cover the new VAT requirements. It was one of the most worrying aspects of being a pensioner that VAT was likely to go up in the Budget. I have listened to the comments about the reasons for increases in  pensions being delayed until November. But that delay is generally very much resented by the pensioners. They have to wait until November, although VAT and new tax burdens commence immediately. I hope that my right hon. Friend will look at this again and see whether, if he is to make an announcement, he can make it at such time as he knows exactly when he can bring it in and when he knows from his records what can be done. I belive that not to do so would be unfair and unacceptable to pensioners. I am sure that I have spoken far too long and I shall probably not catch your eye again, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for a long time. I was advised by my family that whenever I made my maiden speech I should not on any account speak in the economic affairs debate. They tell me I know nothing about economics. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear"".] I left myself wide open there, well knowing that I would do so. But whether I know nothing about what I have just been saying is for the House to judge. I end where I began, with a tribute to this House, which quickly wraps itself around a new Member and makes him one of its own. For that, and for bringing me in and making me feel so welcome, and for sealing the bargain today, I have very much pleasure in thanking everyone concerned.
