gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On 1st April, of all dates, I was elected the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Arundel and Shoreham. The by-election was caused by the  sad death of my predecessor, Captain Kerby. Although I never knew him, by all accounts he was a great servant of his constituency. He was a great champion of individual rights, and quite clearly was a man of outspoken and strong views, which he expressed most forcefully in the constituency. Whether one agrees with his views or not, one should respect any Member who is prepared to speak up for those things on which he feels strongly. I am pleased to take part in the debate shortly after hearing the hon. Lady the Member for Hitchin (Mrs. Shirley Williams) whom I opposed for four years in the Hitchin constituency. I enjoyed my dialogue with her then, and I look forward to a further dialogue with her in the House of Commons. My constituency has a great history. In particular, Kings came and went. King John arrived to succeeed Richard I, and Charles II left hastily after the battle of Worcester, to escape to Normandy. Today in Shoreham there is a growing port and it has become the largest wine-importing port in the country. Arundel is the seat of the premier peer of England and has the distinction of opening the cricket season. The constituency has the largest village in England—or reputedly so—in Lancing, and it is made up of some light industry, it has a strong tourist attraction, there is plenty of farming, and there is a good deal of horticulture, particularly mushroom, flower and apple-growing. The constituency is a great residential area. Like many other constituencies, it has a wide range of environmental problems. I believe William Blake said in 1800 when he came to the constituency that the people of this area were genuine Saxons, handsomer than the people of London. I think that perhaps rather hastily, I ought to move on to the problem of pensions because clearly a significant feature of my constituency is that so many people come to Sussex when they retire. Whilst in the country about 15 per cent. of the population are retired, in my constituency the figure is well over 30 per cent. It is these people who are suffering from the effects of inflation. The great rise in prices and in rates over the last few years causes lack of security for them, and this was   impressed on me most forcefully during the by-election. In an age of pressure groups when people with bargaining power can demonstrate and exercise their right to strike, it is the old people who deserve the greatest possible support and help from the Government and Parliament. There are many demonstrations with which I do not have a great deal of sympathy, but I should have considerable sympathy with them if 7½ million pensioners were to walk down Whitehall demanding the rights which they so richly deserve. The argument is always one of priorities, and I welcome the fact that the Government are giving less emphasis in terms of State aid to agriculture and industry, and more to those who really deserve help. Therefore one must welcome, and can only but welcome, the fact that the Government are giving pensions as of right to the old people; that they are introducing a constant attendance allowance; that they are introducing an invalidity allowance; that they are giving the biggest increase ever in the basic disablement pension and war widows' pensions which will benefit no fewer than half a million people; that they are easing the earnings rule; that they are giving the biggest ever increase in pensions to retired people; and that they are for the first time introducing an automatic biennial uprating of pensions, a system which operates in most of the countries of Western Europe. All that represents an encouraging start, and to those who have accused this Administration of a lack of compassion, I must say that it is wonderful to come to the House this afternoon and be able to support an Administration which really is showing compassion for those in need. I regret that more Members are not present this afternoon, and particularly those on the other side of the House who have criticised this Administration for a lack of compassion. I regret that they have not attended the Chamber this afternoon to give their welcome to the Bill. Having said that, there are four points that I should like to make briefly. My first point concerns adjustments to pensions. Although I understand that, administratively, it is very difficult to  bring forward the date upon which increases are payable, I regret that the increase could not have been made payable this spring. I am glad that we are introducing a statutory two-year review, but I should like the Government to consider the system which operates in Belgium, whereby the pension is automatically uprated whenever there is an increase in prices over a certain percentage. My second point is this: there is a constant argument over the relationship between cash and community services in relation to the problem of the aged. This must surely be regarded as a combined operation. Of course one wants pensioners to have adequate cash so that one does not constantly have to consider whether they should have exemptions or half-fares on public transport. But there are certain services in which cash is not enough. I should like to see a steady improvement in the community services for the aged to enable more people to live at home and enjoy their lives, to improve the meals-on-wheels service, and to alleviate loneliness. Thirdly, if we enter the Common Market, the people on fixed incomes, the retired people, those who have a shorter time to live than most of us, will benefit least. We must surely recognise that the retired people would not have the chance to enjoy any long-term benefits. Therefore, if we do go in, I suggest that the Government should give a top priority pledge of special help to the retired in our community. Surely our ideal in the last part of this century is not just to provide a basic pension which will give a subsistence income in retirement, but to try to produce a society in which everyone has, in the long term, a supplementary scheme which will give him more than enough to live on. I believe that the Government must develop, as they are doing, the strongest possible incentives for people to enter private occupational schemes, by fiscal means or preservation of pension rights, or various other measures. In the meantime, because there are still many people who do not have the benefit of occupational schemes, it is essential to provide and develop a scheme to supplement the basic pension. This is why I welcome the proposals published last week of the Metropolitan Pensioners   Association, which argued in favour of a State reserve scheme. I hope that the Government will seriously consider that. The mark of a civilised nation is its generosity of spirit to the deserving and the needy. I believe that the conscience of the nation demands that those who have contributed to so much to the country in the past should be able to enjoy their retirement in peace and security.
