gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with some trepidation that I rise to make my maiden speech in a debate on this vast subject. It has been a great experience for me to listen to the speeches from both sides of the House. I know that there are many hon. Members who have far more experience and knowledge of the vast issues which confront us than I have, but my reason for wishing to take part in the debate is the five years which I spent from 1948 on the staff of Field Marshal Montgomery in the Western Union organisation and, later, in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. I remember how we started in Dover House, in October, 1948, with a very small military staff, to plan the beginnings of the defence organisation which was set up under the Brussels Treaty. From  within that organisation I watched it grow from its very small beginnings, first to Fontainebleau and later into the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, covering the vast area of the Western world, as it does today. It has always seemed to me—and perhaps there is no need for me to remind hon. Members of this—that the beginning of our defence effort in the West came from the Brussels Treaty, and I believe that, for that Treaty and for the defence organisation which we see today, we owe very much to the efforts, the foresight and perseverance of a very great Foreign Secretary, who is not now with us. From the earliest days, when we started our plans, the problem which faced us was that of Germany. I am going right back to 1948, for we knew even then that there could be no effective defence organisation in the West without the help, in some form or another, of Western Germany. That became all the more evident to us when we knew that the rearmament of Eastern Germany had taken place. To the military planners, Western Germany lay in the forefront of any battle which was likely to take place in a future war. It was unthinkable to us that the West Germans should not play their part in some way. That was from the military point of view. I know the political considerations which have entered into the delay which has arisen in procuring that help but from my experience, I do not believe that the progress of science or the advent of atomic weapons, either tactical or strategical, has in any way altered the need for that West German contribution to Western defence. It is as true today as it was in 1948 that we need that contribution. I am dealing largely with the military aspect of the problem because my experience is mostly concerned with that. Before I leave the military aspect, I want to remind the House that in Western Europe there was always a doubt about our intentions. I believe it to have been completely groundless, but it is no use blinding ourselves to the fact that it existed. It was a doubt of our clear intentions to fight on the Continent of Europe in the event of war. I know that that doubt was quite groundless, but none the less it existed. On many occasions, when I was in Paris, I talked to my French, Dutch and   Belgian colleagues about that problem, particularly when the negotiations were taking place about the European Defence Community. On those occasions I would point out to them the very good reasons for which it was not possible for us to take part as in that organisation an active member—for instance, its supranational character and our other commitments of various kinds; but I do not believe I ever fully removed that doubt from their minds. Possibly I was not very good at persuading them, but in any event the doubt remained. In taking the step which I hope we shall now take, I believe that we shall remove the last remaining doubt from the minds of our European partners in defence. So far I have dealt only with the military considerations which are involved, and I should like to turn for a moment to the wider issues. One thing is quite clear to me, as I am sure it is clear to all hon. Members: the issue of peace or war in our time depends upon a solution of the problem of Germany. I do not think there is any doubt about that. The answer depends upon our getting the right solution, and I believe there is no shadow of doubt that the solution which we are considering today is the right solution, and, what is more, is a realistic solution to the problem. It is no good tackling these problems unless we tackle them with reality. The commitment which we are undertaking is heavy. There is no disguising that fact. It means that we shall have forces on the Continent of Europe for an indefinite period. It certainly means that we shall have some period of National Service as far as we can see into the future, and it also means a financial commitment which may or may not be as heavy as some of us fear. But, despite all those burdens, one point stands out: that it is worth while putting up with them if the measures which we are taking today add up to the prevention of a third world war. From that point of view the burden is worth while. I am very glad that this Agreement seems likely to have the general approval of the House. It is my earnest belief that it is the best solution we can have at present. I referred at the beginning of my speech to the Brussels Treaty, to that great gesture which we made and for  which Britain is giving the lead in 1948. To me it is a matter of the greatest pride that once again, at a time of decision, Britain gave the lead to the world. It is my most earnest hope that these Agreements will be ratified in the Parliaments of the other countries concerned with the very least possible delay, and that we do not once again allow the chance of a solution to slip through our fingers.
