gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The hon. Member for Wansbeck (Mr. Thompson) made a maiden speech this morning, and spoke of the difficulty he has with the name of his constituency. I think that the name of my constituency is unique, in that it is spelt ""Langbaurgh"" and pronounced ""Langbart"". Having got that off my chest, I pay tribute to my two predecessors. Langbaurgh did not suddenly drop out of the sky. It has been redrawn from Cleveland and Whitby and Middlesbrough. First, I pay tribute to Mr. Arthur Bottomley who represented Middlesbrough and who sat on the Opposition Benches with great distinction for many years. I cannot add much to the contribution that has been made by the hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. Bell) in his maiden speech, but I wish to associate myself with his remarks. I have inherited two thirds of my constituency from my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Richmond, Yorks (Mr. Brittan). He has already shown great pace, having been appointed Home Secretary. Who knows how far he will finally go? In their maiden speeches, hon. Members talk about their constituencies in depth and with great knowledge and feeling. I shall do likewise. Langbaurgh is a strange constituency in some ways, because it is a microcosm of much that exists in the area. We have a beautiful coastal strip. We have a large rural part with the lovely town of Guisborough. We also have Middlesbrough and the conurbations close to the Teesside area. So in a debate on youth and opportunities for the future I can express the concern of an area that has a wide range of urban and rural interests. I have noticed that there is little self-imposed modesty in maiden speeches. Hon: Members enumerate the credentials that they have for making a contribution on the subject that is being debated. I shall not break that tradition, and I shall, perhaps, be no less immodest. I have worked in industry for a long time. My principal occupation has been an involvement in training, with young people in particular. I have the honour of being a fellow of the Institute of Personnel Management. I have also served for 20 years in local government— 10 years on a London borough, and 10 years on Wycombe district council, six of those years as leader— until I was elected to this place. I also have the pleasure of being a member of the Buckinghamshire county council. I have a third and important reason for believing that my contribution may add a little to this debate: I have a daughter of 17, who left school last week. So on three fronts I have watched education and training for many years. I have been extremely disappointed that this House continues to have what I regard as an artificial divide between education and  training, as if they were two non-coexisting ideas. I have been thumping drums outside the House for a long time arguing for a radical approach to the manner in which we educate young people. We must live in this age and look forward, and not be so concerned with the past. The hon. Member for Wansbeck spoke this morning about apprenticeships. I should like to describe my experiences as someone who had respnsibility for apprenticeships. I was the chairman of the London area training scheme for the furniture trade jointly with my trade union colleague. We signed indentures when people started their training in that trade. Young people used to come to us and spend five years learning their trade, becoming craftsmen and women. Then along came the raising of the school leaving age and away went one year's training at a stroke. That was followed by a steady move towards young people attaining their majority at 18 years of age, at which point they want full pay. Therefore, the period of training became shortened from five years to about 18 months in practical and realistic terms. The industry has had to bear that. It has had to cope with training young people in 18 months when only a few years earlier the same training had taken five years. Everyone knows that that is the minimum period that it takes someone to become a fully skilled craftsman, making a real contriution to the life and well being of his company. Can hon. Members understand why industrialists are so reluctant in many instances to engage young people as apprentices, when, as employers, they are no longer able to give them the training that they woud have received under the old apprenticeship scheme? My hon. Friend the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. Haselhurst) referred to one of the problems of the YTS. It is geared to a one-year period, and a two-year period has been suggested. We should really be considering how long it takes to train someone to become an adequate baker, typist, furniture maker or even Member of Parliament. I do not know whether that can be quantified without going out and asking those who are responsible for such training and for employment thereafter, in order to gear a scheme accordingly. If it takes only six months to train a young lady adequately in the working of a computer terminal, why not have a flexible scheme? If it takes 18 months, two years or longer to train someone for a more sophisticated job, why not gear the scheme accordingly? I can speak with feeling about the Manpower Services Commission because I served on the Buckinghamshire MSC until I resigned in utter frustration. Very little progress was made at the grass roots, where it really mattered. On one occasion I proposed that there should be a school teacher on the board and that was politely but firmly turned down. I come back to the artificial divide between education and training. For many happy months I served with the City and Guilds of London Institute in drawing up programmes for technicians' education courses in my industry, which is in a sad state today. Sufficient trained people must be available when the recession recedes. No one on the TEC programme committees came from a school. There were people from further education, but they were jealous of their position and would not open the portals. Even if the portals were to open, it is doubtful whether many teachers would want to serve anyway. City and Guilds, a marvellous and learned institute which has formed the basis of apprentice training for over 100 years in Britain, used to be able to take young people   straight from school for its courses. Because of the decline in standards of many young people leaving school, City and Guilds has had to introduce a foundation course to improve numeracy and literacy. That course can now be found in some British schools, but there is still far too great an emphasis on CSE and 0-levels when it would be better to have an education system that allowed the young people to start their training on the City and Guilds technicians education courses while they are still at school. That could then be carried on through the auspices of the YTS and any other scheme that the Government cared to bring along later. I want to see a radical and fundamental rethink of the way in which we treat young people in education and in training. Those are not mutually exclusive areas; they are the same. We are trying to train young people from the earliest age so that they can live happily in society with a job and the pride that that brings. I am one of a growing band of Conservative Members representing constituencies in the north-east of England. One reason for that is that the Opposition parties have lost much, if not all, credibility. The Government were re-elected, although not quite by a landslide. However, we are moving that way and we shall have greater numbers next time— because the people of the north-east trusted the Government. We have a further five years of that trust. It is the young people of today who are our future and we must ensure that the youth training scheme works. I wholeheartedly commend it to the House. We must not carp about it and snipe at it; we must make it work. During this Parliament we must take the opportunity to look more fundamentally at how we go about training and educating young people, training teachers and people in colleges of further education. I find it pretty nauseating that people receive high salaries when they have 12 or 13 contact hours a week with holidays nearly as long as those of hon. Members. I shall be judged in Langbaurgh at the next election on how young people react. I know that the Government have that very much at heart. The people of Langbaurgh also have it very much at heart. There is no issue on which I have had more approaches than what the Government will do for our young people. I welcome the YTS and this opportunity to speak on it. However, I reserve my judgment so that, at any stage in the future, I can speak again on the subject and perhaps motivate the Front Bench to direct some of their thinking towards more fundamental and radical issues than whether the scheme should last 12 months or be associated with the services. As an ex-naval man, I think that the latter idea is rather stupid. I am completely opposed to it. The Front Bench should not listen to that too carefully. However, I hope that it has listened to what I have had to say about talking with City and Guilds, TEC and educationists, and about coming together in a great debate, undivided by party, to look to the future.
