gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is unusual for a fourth consecutive maiden speech to be made. Therefore, in the circumstances, I must ask for as much consideration from right hon. and hon. Members as the three preceding hon. Members received. Coming from the Don Valley, I think that it would be only appropriate for me to refer to my illustrious predecessor, the Right Hon. Tom Williams. I think that his distinguished presence is missed from this House. I am sure that right hon. and hon. Members on both sides will bear with me when I say that  we all hope that in the very near future he will have sufficiently recovered from his illness to take a place in another building attached to this Palace. In the Don Valley, the principal heavy industries are mining and agriculture. The Bill therefore is very important to my constituents. I have not had the opportunity of a superior education like some hon. Members who have spoken today, but I have had the opportunity of standing in a dole queue and I understand something about unemployment. I am very much concerned about the prospects of depopulation in the mining areas and the economic stagnation which apparently is creeping into the older coalfields. I have read the Bill and I find that the Government appear not to be prepared to take certain powers which I think they ought to take to prevent the mining valleys from becoming empty and desolate. I refer to the question of opencast mining. I understand that there are 112,832 acres of land from which coal is now being extracted, land which is not being used for its traditional purpose—the production of food. I am quite certain that it is both uneconomic and socially unjust to extract fuel by this method and to allow mining villages to become centres of unemployment where the traditional skill of the miner is simply thrown to one side. I believe that it would be much better, from a strategic point of view, if we left the opencast coal where nature has stored it instead of dragging it from the bowels of the earth and then stacking it around our pitheads. The method of surface extraction was introduced to meet an emergency. I am afraid that we have not yet faced all the emergencies that we might have to face. It may be that it will be necessary for such methods of extraction to be hurriedly brought into operation to meet some future emergency. Therefore, in my opinion, it is wrong and wasteful to proceed with the extraction of coal by this method and to close down pits in the older mine fields. Were we to discontinue this method, the land would, of course, be brought into cultivation once more, the farmers would again roam their fields and bring them back to life and the country would benefit from the food which they produced. It does not appear to me that the Government intend to take the necessary steps to provide the money with which to terminate existing contracts. I understand that that is one of the arguments being used against the discontinuance of opencast mining—that it would be a costly business because certain contracts would have to be terminated and compensation paid. The Government have the right to ask the House to provide the money with which to meet such contingencies. Another argument also used in some quarters is that the discontinuance of opencast mining would render certain people in the civil engineering industry unemployed and that, therefore, we should just be transferring the problem from one industry to another and from one area to another. Such a result is not really necessary, because the men and the machines now being used for the surface extraction of coal could be readily transferred to solve one of our most grievous national maladies—road congestion—by the building of new roads. The civil engineering industry is the most pliable and malleable industry in the country, particularly in present conditions. Therefore, I think that we should ask the Government to insert a Clause in the Bill which would enable them to take the necessary action to discontinue the production of several million tons of coal by the method of surface extraction and to transfer that production to the traditional method of mining so that the people in the mining areas may be able to look to the future with some hope of living a decent life in their valleys and villages. Since 15th January this year, 23 men of over 35 years of age have left the pit in which I formerly worked, and have found employment outside the district altogether. Some have migrated and others have gone to areas in the country where lighter kinds of employment are available. Ten men have left because of long-term sickness, principally pneumoconiosis, a disease which renders them physically incapable of following the arduous work of mining. Seven men have died from various causes and 134 men of under 35 years of age have left the village. Out of 199 people who left that pit between 15th January and 24th October this year, 134 were under  35 years of age. That means that this problem is not only an economic one but a social problem. It is the distribution of population on the wrong lines. These villages must be kept alive. One immediate way in which they can be helped to live a little longer is by the discontinuance of opencast mining. I sincerely hope that the President of the Board of Trade will take notice of what I have said and will take the necessary steps to have this practice discontinued forthwith in the interest of the permanent solution of the problem.
