gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope the House will forgive me if I do not follow the arguments of the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne. East (Mr. Blenkinsop). Were I to do so, I should very soon be controversial, and I know that on this occasion when I seek the sympathy and indulgence of the House in speaking for the first time I should avoid controversy. I have the honour to represent the Billericay division of Essex, which stretches from the outskirts of Romford to the environs of Southend. It includes the dormitory town of Brentwood in the west, and to the south the villages of Laindon and West Horndon, whence many travel each day to London on the oldest, dirtiest and most dilatory trains in all England. On that there is no controversy. The division is a happy blend of the old with the new, for in the north there is the old market town of Wickford, and Billericay, whence came the Pilgrim Fathers. Those who live there now are of the same independent and enterprising character as those who left to shape the new world across the Atlantic. Yet to the south-east is the new town of Basildon, which among the new towns will be unique and the largest. It will be unique because it is the only new town which is taking the place of existing villages at present having a population of some 20,000, most of whom live in  small wooden bungalows, all to be demolished, along 80 miles of unmade-up roads. It will be the largest because its population will be in the region of 90,000. Since my right hon. Friend announced his proposals, I, like other hon. Members, have taken the opportunity to seek the views of my constituents about the Budget. When I have asked them for their opinions their thoughts have gone at once to the Premium Bonds. I can say with certainty that in this part of Essex, at least, the scheme is looked upon as being sensible, imaginative and something that will bring a little light relief to the picture of inflation wearily drawn by successive Chancellors. They say, in effect, that at long last we shall have a modicum of fun out of this dreary subject which has hitherto brought forth only admonitions and exhortations. I cannot say that this feeling is unanimous in Essex, as it is not in the country generally. The proposal has caused concern to many in the Nonconformist churches. They adopt the argument used by the Primate in another place, that the health of a people depends upon its constructive spirit and that it is the duty of the State to reject any measure that will vitiate to any degree that constructive spirit. The essence of gambling, so the argument goes, is the desire to gain something in return for giving nothing. All would agree that the ""something for nothing"" attitude is bad. But is that gambling? In my experience, it has been the very opposite. It has been a case of something to the bookmaker and nothing back. Surely, the pith of gambling is the taking of a chance, and that is something which cannot be divorced from our daily lives. Gambling alone and taken by itself is scarcely wrong, but when taken to excess, the consequences, as distinct from the deed itself, can be evil. They can bring degradation and destitution to a family. The Churches can say that those who gamble in that way suffer from a moral disease. The desire for that kind of gambling is the outward expression of the disease. We shall not cure the disease by the prohibition of gambling. If I might borrow an analogy used by my right hon. Friend in another context, it is like trying to cure chicken-pox by rubbing out   the spots. That is precisely what many of these churchmen are trying to do. If they really believe that the Premium Bonds are morally wrong, let them go to the root of the trouble, if trouble there be. If they really believe that we shall become a nation of reprobate, profligate gamblers, is it not a confession that they will fail in their task to cure this moral disease? Despite the arguments of the Nonconformist Churches, I for one am not convinced that the acquisition of these bonds will be gambling in the ordinary sense of the word. They are little more than a device to attract savings from those who are not saving at the present time. In the main, these are the hundreds of thousands of families who have a weekly budget. They have a weekly wage, and when they receive their wage packets at the end of the week they decide there and then how the money is to be spent. So much is put aside for the rent collector and the tallymen, for food, clothing clubs, hire purchase payments and so forth. A further sum may then be set aside for a weekly investment in the football pools. This seldom exceeds five shillings. If these people are to be attracted to the new form of savings, the Premium Bonds must be of units that can fit into a weekly budget, so that they can be bought on a weekly basis. It is unrealistic to expect the wage earner with £8 or £9 per week to be able to afford a bond of £1 on the basis of a weekly budget. If I may be allowed to venture one word of criticism, it is that the units are too large and that far more would be sold if they were available at 5s. If that were the size of the unit, it would mean that everyone who now invests in football pools would be able to take part in this new kind of savings. With that one reservation, I support the proposal, as I wholeheartedly support the Bill as a whole.
