gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence of the Committee for this my maiden speech. I should like to comment upon the Budget and the Economic Survey as they affect the agricultural industry. Of course, the Budget does not affect the industry very much except for the Purchase Tax on commercial vehicles and the increase of 9d. in the price of petrol. I rather doubt whether the suggested method of recompensing farmers who use agricultural vehicles and farm machines worked by petrol, will be as simple as the right hon. and learned -Gentleman the Chancellor seemed to think when he spoke of an annual allowance. I wonder whether the Government have considered the Canadian system of a rebate on the gallonage consumed during the year. There is always some advantage to be gained by using a system which has been used before. The more important aspect is the effect upon agriculture of the facts disclosed in the Economic Survey. Home food production accounts for something rather less than half of our food, and anything which affects food is of immediate concern to everyone including the housewife who has to pay for it and the taxpayer who has to pay the food subsidies. I was glad that the Chancellor found time to declare again his faith in the policy of full production and the present system of what he called fair prices. As hon. Members know, that has been brought into some doubt recently by a distinguished Member on the opposite side of the Committee. In present circumstances when people are most sensitive about the cost of food, it is particularly important that the nation should have confidence in the system of food production and guaranteed negotiated prices. The Government have negotiated prices with farmers in the last month or so, and the level of profitability is mainly their responsibility. That level is reasonable, but it is obvious that if the consuming public felt that farmers were getting an unreasonable share, it would destroy confidence in the whole system. That would have serious repercussions. The global figure may appear to be large when compared with the pre-war level, but when it is analysed in terms of what each farmer gets the position is more clearly appreciated. When one talks about profits, it is well to recollect that the average farming structure in this country is small. Two-thirds of our farms are under 100 acres and they consist of the farmer and his wife and perhaps one employee. That is the average structure. If hon. Members opposite think about the large farms which make big profits, they are thinking about the exceptions. If the Government fixed profit levels on that basis, they would put the rest of the farmers out of business. The average profit level today is something like £750 a year. The present capital investment is over £70 million per annum which is one-quarter of the total profitability of the industry; and when income tax is deducted, which I estimate to be about one-eighth of the total annual sum, the farmer is left with a net sum of not much more than £8 a week. When one takes into account the fact that the average farmer's wife does a good whack of work,   it will be appreciated that the farmer himself does not earn very much more than the farm worker's basic wage plus a reasonable amount of overtime. On that basis, it will be seen that farmers are not making any unreasonable profit. Far from it being a feather bed, although I would not say that it is hard lying, it is certainly no more than a utility standard. It is easy enough at present to justify the present system of the guaranteed profit and the guaranteed level of prices, because the majority of the food subsidies now paid are consumer subsidies. Either the food concerned is not available elsewhere in the world, or only in dollar areas and we have no dollars to buy it, or it is available elsewhere at a higher price. Whichever way we consider the matter, they are consumer subsidies. In those circumstances, it is fairly easy to justify a fair level of profitability, but a situation is developing now—and the right hon. and learned Gentleman did allude to it—with the impetus of O.E.E.C. and the process of liberalisation of trade, when we are accepting responsibility to purchase larger quantities of food from the European markets, and these larger quantities are becoming available at more competitive prices. I should like to know, and I hope someone on the Government Front Bench will tell us this evening, how these two liabilities or commitments are going to be related; that is to say, the supply of food from our home production to our commitment to purchase supplies of food now becoming available in O.E.E.C. countries. Obviously, unless these two policies are integrated together, we may find ourselves in a situation in which we have a surplus of food. I am the first to want to see larger supplies of food coming from abroad at cheaper prices, but the point I want to make is that, as these food supplies become available in larger quantities and at lower prices than those at which they can be produced here, it is vitally important that the nation as a whole should understand that it cannot just be selective and decide which commodities it will have from our own home agriculture. Unless it is based on a balanced husbandry, we cannot have a healthy industry. If, when food becomes cheaper, the nation decided that it would just have. say, milk and main-crop potatoes, which  we can produce here cheaper than anybody anywhere else, and that they would not have other things that are more expensive, we would very quickly reduce our own agriculture to complete wreckage. It is most necessary that these two policies should be integrated. On the subject of the level of profitability I believe that a White Paper is about to be published which will give the details of the last price review, and I hope that it will reassure anyone who feels any doubt that the system is on a reasonable basis. There is one other point that seems to me to be worth looking at, which has been alluded to by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bedford (Captain Soames), and that is on the question of reducing costs. It is rather surprising that, although the Economic Survey has a great deal to say about expanding volume, nothing is said about reducing costs. It seems to me that by maintaining the present level of profitability, which allows for sufficient capital expenditure as well as a reasonable level of living, plus the present wage structure at a fair level, it is still possible to have a policy which aims at reducing costs as well as expanding volume. In a general way, I know that the Ministry of Agriculture has been following that policy, and, of course, all the capital expenditure which is going in now and providing fresh buildings and more mechanisation of farms and so on, is, on the long view, gradually equipping the industry so that it is progressively becoming more efficient and reducing its costs. Yet, there are in the official policy some vestiges, left over from the wartime period, when volume was the only criterion, which I think should go now. The general policy of technical advice as given by the advisory services is invariably directed simply to acreage and volume. I have not heard of any advisory officer who is under the impression that it is his duty to consider costs as well, and it seems to me that we have reached a point in the interests of maintaining the present policy of full production when we must recognise that these two policies of expanding volume and reducing costs must be related. But there are other ways in which costs can be reduced. We still have the feedingstuffs rationing scheme, and I am   glad to see that the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture is here. I have in a different place and on other occasions given the advice that it is time we got rid of this scheme, because such advantages as we have got out of it are more than offset by the high cost effect which it has on many of the commodities which we are trying to produce. The Government have equipped themselves with a revised Marketing Act, and there are schemes for producer marketing, and it is up to the Government to give the necessary impetus to the producers to bring their schemes forward. There are several schemes already in embryo which are ready to go forward with a little encouragement from the Government. These, and any other factors which serve to reduce the costs of producing food and moving it to the consumer, are worth putting into practice. These two points require examination. One is the integration of our commitments under our expanding home production, on the one hand, with our commitments under the liberalisation of trade with the O.E.E.C. countries, on the other. Already, we have had a warning in the effect on the horticultural industry. If there was the same effect on general farming, the result would be very serious indeed. What we require and expect is a policy which, as well as providing for an expanding volume and contracting costs, maintains the same level of profitability and the wage structure as essential parts of the picture. In doing that, we shall be moving towards the maintenance and development of a policy of full agricultural production which, I feel, has a permanent and vital part to play in the national economy as a whole.
