gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity of addressing this Committee for the first time—an occasion made the more daunting by my recollection of the great part played here by the great men of Colne Valley. I think of Philip Snowden, Chancellor of the Exchequer in three Administrations; the late Mr. Will Glenvil Hall, a Financial Secretary to the Treasury and a chairman of the Labour Party; from the Liberal benches, the late Sir James Kitson, first Lord Airedale, and, also from the Liberal benches, the late F. W. Mallalieu, not the least of whose distinctions was to   father the hon. and learned Member for Brigg (Mr. E. L. Mallalieu) and the hon. Member for Huddersfield, East (Mr. J. P. W. Mallalieu). I hope that I have said enough, although by no means all that could be said, to indicate that in British politics the Colne Valley has been a source and not a mere reflection. I believe that my immediate predecessor, Dr. Duffy, was a zealous and energetic chairman of an important committee of the party opposite. I am particularly pleased to be able to follow the hon. and learned Member for Warrington (Mr. W. T. Williams), whose remarks will be studied by the diligent committees of numerous co-operative societies in my constituency, and, no doubt, throughout the country. There is in my division a co-operative society—Meltham Mills—which contests the claim of the Rochdale Pioneers to have been the first retail co-operative trading organisation, and I believe its evidence on this point. The great theme of the Budget Statement was the need for change, and hon. Members may agree that nowhere is change more rapid than in the following four items: what men and women throughout the world wear, agricultural machinery, what we put upon the floors and walls of our homes, and means of motive power. It is largely by anticipating changes in these particular goods, and by taking considerable risks to be ready to meet demand—particularly from overseas—for these goods that my constituents earn their living, and also earn us a great deal of foreign currency. In referring to my constituents, I do not have the great advantage possessed by the Prime Minister of having been born, bred and partly schooled in the Colne Valley—a fact which has been heavily underlined in the constituency during the last three years—but I am aware of some of the respects in which my constituency want assistance in the sort of changes which enable them to earn their living. One of them is assistance in renewing their industrial buildings. It was, therefore, with great dismay that I heard the Chief Secretary confirm Budget Resolution 17, which proposes to abolish all investment allowances. As we know from the White Paper published last February. In  respect of industrial buildings outside development areas, the Government have nothing of any importance to put in the place of the departing investment allowances. There is, it is true, the proposal to step up slightly the initial allowance, but hon. Members know that this is no more than a very temporary loan. In many parts of the country there are multi-storey buildings dating from the Industrial Revolution, whose third, fourth and fifth storeys are quite unsuitable for modern, fast-running machinery. It seems to me to be very odd that at this stage in the attempt to modernise Britain assistance should be removed from people who want to modernise their buildings. I could take the right hon. Gentleman to places where modern fast-running machinery has to be operated at very much less than optimum speed because of the old-fashioned nature of the buildings. I hope very much that in the Finance Bill we shall see that there have been some second thoughts on this important point. It not, the Government are condemning a large number of workers to go on in unattractive surroundings, and working at very much less than the full efficiency that is desired. As my right hon. Friend made clear yesterday, Liberals do not accept the proposed Selective Employment Tax, but if we must have it, why must it be in the primitive form of a flat-rate uniform per capita tax? Why, in a country supposed to be modernising itself, should a tax be introduced, with a show of novelty, on a tribal back-of-beyond basis of ""25-bob-a-nob""? Surely, the only genuine type of employment tax would be on a percentage basis—variable also regionally and in other ways. The absurd results of a poll tax imported from the jungle will be obvious at every turn of one's daily life. For instance, the cost to the bank of employing the kindly old man who watches the door will probably be about 12 per cent. of his wages. The cost to the bank of retaining a prestige economist who could probably well be winkled out for more useful service elsewhere will be a mere 2 per cent. or less of his wage. He is therefore likely to stay, whereas the chap at the door may be discharged and is most unlikely to be used in manufacturing. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is reported in The Guardian this morning as having claimed to his hon. Friends that he has at last got away from rusty and traditional instruments of taxation. In this case he has gone back to mediaeval forms of taxation by importing a poll tax into his new scheme. I cannot help feeling that the Chancellor has been the victim of a rather favoured theory of recent times, that the most important feature of a tax is that it should be totally enforceable and that there should no possible loophole, however complicated the machinery. The mention of rusty and traditional instruments brings me naturally to my last point—National Savings. The Chancellor announced that the new certificate has been a great success. He did not tell us how much genuinely new saving the certificate has attracted, as distinct from the transfer of money already invested or money which would have been invested but which is now attracted no doubt by the enticing rate to anybody paying tax at 15s. in the £ of 18 per cent. which is for money only lent at call. I am not sure how far the low-wage earners of the Colne Valley will rejoice to know that their taxes are being appropriated to pay 18 per cent. for money at call. As is quite blatantly advertised, the return to somebody paying simply the standard rate of Income Tax is no less than 7¾ per cent. I was disappointed that the Budget Statement contained no hint that the Chancellor has listened to the appeals of the Chairman of the National Savings Movement, the hard-working Sir Miles Thomas, who is known to have been advocating for some time a State unit trust. I can only hope that the Bill when it comes will contain something along the lines of liberal proposals for enabling people to take up shares in industry without encountering the full force of the Inland Revenue machinery for Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax. I have some slight encouragement in hoping that, because, when these Liberal proposals were last debated in the House although they seemed to fall on the very deaf ears of hon. Members who now sit on this side of the House—retribution has now come upon them for their hard  hearts—the right hon. Member now the President of the Board of Trade said this: The aim of this Liberal revolution is thoroughly laudable. It is the spread of ownership of shares over a higher proportion of the individuals of the community. It is all too true, as the two speakers from the Liberal Party, have said, that at present only a very small minority of the population holds industrial shares of any kind.""—OFFICIAL REPORT, 2nd July, 1958, Vol. 590, c. 1496.] I hope that the President of the Board of Trade is still of the same opinion and that he will show some evidence of this. In general, I hope that when we see the Finance Bill it will contain clear indications that the Government are willing to listen and that they have had many second thoughts.
