gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
While appreciating that a maiden speech is normally expected to be non-controversial, having spent three weeks here I am beginning to wonder whether it is possible to speak on any subject in a completely non-controversial way. I speak today because I gather from certain remarks which have been made by hon. Members opposite recently that a notice to quit is due to be given. I would like to get in my maiden speech before a possession order is made. It is always customary, and an honour, to mention one's constituency when making a maiden speech and I would like at this stage to mention my constituency of Toxteth in Liverpool. Liverpool is a great city which until recently was represented in the House  by Mr. Bevins. He was unfortunate in that he was part-architect of the 1957 Act. I wish to pay tribute to him, and although I did not know him personally I am sure that any person who has given 13 years' service to this House, his constituency and his party deserves the best. I am sure that all hon. Members will join me in wishing him good luck. Toxteth probably has one of the worst records when one contemplates the 1957 Act and I say without hesitation that one of the main reasons why I am here today is because of the injustice and inequalities which were perpetrated under that Act. If I appear to be somewhat controversial I only hope that hon. Members opposite will seek to put the best interpretation on my remarks. Several hon. Members have referred to the number of evictions, but what many people fail to appreciate is that there is something much worse than eviction, and that is living for years in intolerable conditions because one is frightened to make a legal complaint to the department concerned. I am speaking of people who live in homes without water supplies. Other hon. Members who have served on local authorities will agree that one of the most distressing things that can happen to a councillor is to be confronted with a problem of that magnitude—no water, no toilet facilities and so on—and yet have to say to the person concerned, ""I can get that remedied but you might get evicted from the premises. What do you wish me to do?"" Time and again we are told, ""No. We will have to put up with it. We will be without a toilet, but, for goodness' sake, do not do anything which might get us evicted"". For every eviction one can cite 100 cases of people who for four, five and even more years have been living in such conditions. Examples are easy to quote, but I have heard remarks passed by hon. Members opposite today which make me wonder whether they really think that this problem does exist or whether it is a figment of our imagination. I am referring to houses in which the six bedrooms are occupied by 42 people, where not a single toilet works and with the nearest public toilet being 300 yards down the street. One can imagine the conditions in such premises. During the last 18 months I came across a case where the drinking water   was being taken from the lavatory bowl. This is happening as a result of the 1957 Act because, apart from evictions, it has prevented people from daring to complain because they know what happened to their neighbours who did just that. It makes me happy to know that, for the most part, both sides of the House are agreed that this state of affairs must come to an end. I only wish that the party opposite had thought of it before. Several hon. Members opposite have said that they did press for such a Measure, but I am sure that if they had pressed more keenly it would not have been necessary for us now to have to bring forward this Bill, which is seeking to tide things over until we can introduce a more comprehensive Measure. The right hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) remarked that the Bill gave the impression of having been rushed. Anyone who knows anything about the Rent Acts knows that they have come in for the same criticism. Indeed, High Court judges have criticised the language of these Measures. It has been pointed out that the language was not legal language but journalese, as a result of which generations of lawyers have made a lucrative living out of that sort of legislation for the last 40 years. Many courts have tried to decide just what the language was meant to mean. I urge my right hon. Friend to remember that it may be better to keep language which is not necessarily legal but which at least has been given legal definition than to introduce a new Measure, bringing in so much legal jargon which will again result in people going before the courts in an effort to find out exactly what Parliament was trying to say. Protection is an aspect of this problem that is often forgotten. We should ask ourselves, first, what we are seeking to do by these measures. I am quite certain that we are not seeking to penalise the landlord—let us be quite clear about that—and I find it one of the most hopeful things about this whole issue. We have to break through the curtain that comes between landlord and tenant, because each is vital to the other. Nevertheless, a landlord must make up his mind whether he wishes to let his property or not. When the landlord lets the property to a family, when does that family cease  to get protection? As things now are there are some tremendous anomalies. It is just the toss of a coin whether two landlords, letting identical houses on a certain day, can get their houses back within two or three years or, dependent on when people die, whether it will be 40 or 50 years. Is there not a need now to decide that when we talk about protection we are talking about keeping the home together? Does a home cease to exist merely because the father and mother die? We know that some of the most distressing cases coming before the courts are those in which an unmarried daughter has devoted her life to looking after her parents—has probably given up the prospects of marriage to look after an ailing parent, and then, at a time when, perhaps, she is herself getting towards retirement, the remaining parent dies and she is thrown out. Should we not decide whether we are talking about a home or a tenant? If we are talking about a home, does not that home continue to exist while any of the original members of the family live in it? There is only one answer to that question. Is it right that whether or not an unmarried daughter who has looked after her parents is allowed to continue in the premises should depend on whether her mother died before her father? If the father died first and the tenancy went to the mother, the daughter now has no protection. Is that logical? Is that what we are really trying to legislate for? Or should we not, here and now, say that, at least until the further Measure is brought forward—in, I hope, the near future—each and every member of the family who has continued to reside permanently in that home should receive protection? I believe that to be the only humane way in which to deal with the problem, and I ask my right hon. Friend the Minister of Housing to take that thought into consideration when the other Measure is being prepared. I hope that I have not overburdened the House, or overstepped the mark of tradition, and I thank all hon. Members for the great courtesy with which they have received my maiden speech.
