gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The nervousness and diffidence with which I rise to address the House for the first time is made somewhat less by being called by such an old friend as yourself, Mr. Deputy-Speaker. I have the honour to represent South Paddington, which, although it has no very direct contact with the sea, has nevertheless quite a strong indirect one through having been represented in this House for over 20 years by an admiral who was very lusty in these debates. In addressing the House for the first time on a naval occasion, I hope that I am following his example and I hope to be of as much service to South Paddington as he was. I wish to discuss the subject of the R.N.V.R. The hon. Member for Cardiff, South-East (Mr. Callaghan) stressed the importance of the R.N.V.R. pilot, but we must not forget the equally important functions of the R.N.V.R. with the Fleet. It is well known that before the war there was not a great deal of enthusiasm in the Service for training the R.N.V.R. Before the war I served for 10 days in a destroyer, as a sub-lieutenant, and the commanding officer never once spoke to me. I know that during and immediately following the war that near-hostility has completely vanished, but I do hear, from those whom I know in the R.N.V.R., both officers and men, that something of that feeling is creeping back. I urge my right hon. Friend the First Lord to do everything he can to try to stop it, because it can be done very easily. Now is the time to do it, because the younger officers, who now command the small ships in which most of the men of The R.N.V.R. do their sea-time training, have not had first-hand experience of the value of the Reserves in time of war, and they may be a little sceptical. It is also important because many of the young reservists now doing training have not had a great deal of sea-going experience themselves, and there is nothing more alarming than one's joining a sea-going ship for the first time, unless it is speaking in this House for the first time. But that alarm turns absolutely to despair if one feels that one is unwanted. I am not suggesting that the red carpet should be put down every time a revervist joins a ship, but I think it is most essential that reservists joining ships for training should be made to feel welcome or at least not to feel that they are unwanted. I think that can be done, because the complaints have always come from people who are going in for sea training rather than for short or long courses, which I understand are efficient and much appreciated. I understand that 14 days' notice is always given to a ship before a body of reservists arrive in it and I should like to suggest that it should be incumbent upon a commanding officer to see that a short schedule of training is prepared, so that the reservists are immediately able to get into the swim of things. Another point is the question of R.N.V.R. watch-keeping certificates and qualified officer status. For good reasons—unfortunately reinforced recently by an unhappy accident—it is virtually impossible for any R.N.V.R. officer nowadays to keep a watch at sea long enough to enable him to get a full naval watch-keeping certificate or to get qualified officer status. If the Reserve Fleet were manned, the lack of these officers with these qualifications would be felt very severely, and a great burden would be thrown on the Regular officers. Added   to that, R.N.V.R. officers who could feel that they were getting something for their efforts instead of being frustrated, as they so often are today, would be greatly encouraged. I should like to turn briefly to that branch of the Service in which most of the young reservists are particularly interested—that is, Coastal Forces. When I first joined Coastal Forces, there was only a handful of boats—M.T.B's—all of one design. By the end of the war there were hundreds of these craft of many different designs. I understand that the present policy is to try to concentrate on a dual-purpose craft which will be an effective anti-E-boat and torpedo boat; but in view of the fantastic cost of these craft—I see that they cost as much as a pre-war destroyer—I should have thought a strong case could have been made for building much cheaper and smaller boats which would carry only torpedoes. That would have considerable advantages, but, whether or not it is done, I think it is most important that anybody who is ever in a position to operate these very small coastal craft should be well qualified to do so and should at least know something about them. Reverting again to my experience in the war, I was sent out time and again on operations in conditions which were absolutely impossible, and the result was only damage to boats, exhaustion of crews, and loss of morale. I was once sent on a particular operation which was an extremely costly failure, because the people in charge of it did not know anything about the boats they had to operate. I urge very strongly that it should be a matter of Admiralty policy that officers who are in a position to operate and control these craft should have had a chance, at any rate, of having first-hand experience of them. During the war I had the pleasure of being sunk in an M.T.B. with the present First Sea Lord. It was a relative pleasure because there was no serious damage; and Admiral McGrigor certainly had firsthand experience of those boats, which helped enormously in morale thereafter. I am not, of course, suggesting that to be sunk in an M.T.B. leads to promotion to any high Flag rank. I have touched on these matters of the Reserve officers and the craft which they mostly man, and I make no apology if  my speech has been limited to this, because I know what a lively and important part they played in the last war. If we have the men and the craft, properly encouraged and developed, we shall be able to provide a sure anti-E boat protection for our coastal convoys and also to menace swiftly and by night harbours that might be considered to be inviolate. If we could do that in this small sphere of naval warfare, we should have gone a long way to deter that aggression by invasion the prevention of which is our ever-present aim.
