gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I do not intend to follow the hon. Member for Eccles (Mr. Proctor) in his arguments, partly because this is the first time I have addressed the House and partly because I want to be brief and not detain the House for long. I want to put forward a few points on matters which, after the speeches we have heard in the debate, may appear to be small, but I think are important. Unless they are attended to, I believe that much of the great re-armament plan may break down. The first thing I want to urge upon the Government to do is to reconsider their decision to call up the Z reservists for only 15 days. I do not think that it is possible adequately to train even an infantry man in that time, considering  all the complications of weapons and ground training that he has to carry out. There are many weapons, and in that time there will be the opportunity only for lectures to remind the Reservists of the workings of these weapons or to give demonstrations of their use. There will be no opportunity for the men to get used once again to handling them and knowing well how to use them. Perhaps that is all that the 15 days are supposed to do, just to refresh the minds of the men who are called up. Like many other hon. Members, I have done a number of refresher courses during my time in the Army. I think we would all agree that it would have been impossible after a lapse of two years, to re-gather in a fortnight such efficiency as we possessed in the past. There are many subjects that we have to learn. Take field training, which is of vital importance. A man's whole life may depend upon it. If he cannot use his weapons with the sureness he should have, the efficiency of the whole unit may be impaired, if not indeed the whole unit endangered. There are many weapons of a specialist nature which many men have to re-learn. Even in an infantry battalion there are anti-tank weapons of various sorts, mortars and other equipment, such as wireless. They all demand a high standard of efficiency if they are to be properly used. It is absolutely vital that all these weapons be used efficiently and surely by the men who may be called upon in an emergency to fight for their country. It is not just a question of using them on the barrack square or in the barrack room on a flat, even surface. The terrain may be bad; it may be very cold, which may affect their competence in using them; it may be dark and they may have to know the feel of the weapon; and they may be under heavy fire, which is extremely unsettling in itself. Infantry training requires more than 15 days. A great deal longer is required for some of the other arms. For instance, the Royal Armoured Corps is composed almost entirely of specialists. Each member of a tank crew has his own function, and it is often found that one man cannot carry out more than two of the jobs in a tank. These men need a greater degree of skill in operation than do the ordinary infantrymen. I should have thought that a longer period of training   was required to get the full use out of the Armoured Corps. A tank is a very valuable and somewhat scarce piece of equipment, and if we are to make full use of the tanks it is essential to have competent men to man them and so minimise the chance of unnecessary loss. More important perhaps than all that is that this House has a duty to ensure that everything is done that can be done for the man who is called up to serve his country in order to provide him with the maximum safety. If by reducing his period of training we so reduce his efficiency that he is not able to carry out his duties effectively and so endangers himself and his comrades who may have had longer training, we should be doing a very wrong thing. I want to give the House a practical example of how this worked out in the last war. Two battalions were advancing in Holland in an attempt to relieve Arnhem. One was a regular British battalion which had been training hard and had served at Dunkirk and had many men of great experience. During their training in England the men had covered almost every feature of infantry training which was required. The other was a United States battalion of comparatively recent creation. I assure the House that what I have to say is intended in no way to be disrespectful to the United States troops, because they were very brave and fought magnificently, but they had not had the training. The British battalion went up the street of a town with orders to clear it. They went up the side moving in the approved fashion from door to door and taking cover, with the men behind getting into the houses and clearing them of enemy and other men manning the windows to give protective fire to the men advancing up the street. It was a well-organised and well-planned operation. They had casualties, but they were remarkably few. The Americans approached the matter in a very different spirit. They advanced gaily up the middle of the street firing in what I might call the approved Hollywood style. They suffered casualties. As the front men were mown down others took their place. It was very brave but very wasteful, and it would have been very much better to have adopted the other system. I quote that story to illustrate the argument I have been using. Another aspect of the problem, which has already been touched upon, is that if men have to work and fight together they must get a certain amount of the team spirit, and if they are to have that, surely it is important that the men who are called up should do their period of training with the units in which they will fight. It appears that these units will be those at present stationed in Germany, which are far below their peace establishment, and that means that on the basis of their war establishment, their present strength is about 50 per cent. That means that those battalions have in a very short time to fit in the men recently called up and accustom them to the new surroundings. Surely it would be better, even at the expense of the time taken in expanding the period of service, to send those men out to Germany where they may have to serve in the future? That is not all. As the Minister of Defence stated, we are committed to maintaining certain divisions in Germany up to strength. I understand that in the autumn manoeuvres in Germany some tank regiments could not get their tanks on the roads without the assistance of Germans because they had not enough drivers. I also believe that many units have been forced to employ German mechanical assistance to keep their vehicles going. Surely it is time we put that matter in order. I have a small suggestion to offer. I do not know whether it would work, but I believe that it is at least worthy of consideration. There are a large number of men retired from all the Forces on pension. Many of them have found that, because of their age, it is impossible to settle down in civil life or, in some cases, to get jobs. Would it not be possible to invite them to rejoin the home establishment and so release younger men to fill the vacancies in Germany? The staff posts on the new divisions have also to be filled. It seems to me more important still that the men who will work together in those formations should have every chance of getting to know each other. Many of the jobs will be left vacant until the call-up and I do not imagine that it will be possible to fill them all with the number of officers at present available. Would it not be possible when the call-up takes place in the summer, to select in advance certain officers for staff training   and let them go to Germany to learn the job on the spot, get used to the ground and meet the colleagues with whom they would work? That would give them a thorough grounding in the jobs they would carry out. I have tried to make some suggestions which may prove of some use, but all sides of the House hope that the preparations about which we have been talking will not prove necessary. At the same time, it would be extremely foolish to neglect any opportunity to improve our defences, and, as it does not appear likely or even possible for us to have very large ground forces, let us make sure that the quality of our Forces is good. We are undertaking this policy to safeguard our position in case of attack on the one hand and, on the other, because the Government have undertaken—almost everyone in the House has agreed with the undertaking—to make a contribution of substantial size to the mutual Defence Force provided for under the Atlantic Pact. If we do not put the Army on a stronger basis, we shall not be able to honour this Treaty which we have freely entered into. Furthermore, all Western Europe is watching us. They know exactly our strength and they are not likely to increase theirs if they see that we have not done much ourselves. Therefore, it behoves us to take all necessary steps to increase our efficiency and build up our strength if the whole of this Western European Defence Force is not to become a hollow mockery. For these reasons, I urge the Government to think again on the call-up and to see if they cannot do something to make it a little more effective.
