gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I congratulate the hon. Member for Glasgow, Shettleston (Mr. Marshall) on his maiden speech. I hope that in due course we shall cross swords in as polite and articulate a fashion as that in which he has made his speech this evening. I should like to add to the thanks which have already been given by hon. Members on each side of the House to all those in the House who have helped me so much since I became a Member. I should also like to crave the traditional indulgence of the House to a Member on his feet for the first time, but I do so with mixed feelings, Mr. Deputy Speaker, because I learned my politics in the rough and tumble of open air speaking in Hornsey, under the watchful eye of my hon. Friend the Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office. I must confess that I am more daunted by a silent—or even non-existent—foe than I am by the occasional polite and reasoned contribution such as that commonly found at Hyde Park Corner. It is also something of an anniversary for me, in that an ancestor of mine, Sir Robert Atkins, became the Member for Gloucestershire exactly 300 years ago, only, I am sorry to say, to lose his seat on 12 July of that same year—an event that I would not wish to see repeated. As hon. Members will be aware, I am the Member with the smallest majority in this House. I am all the more awed by the fact that my friend the hon. and learned Member for South Fylde (Mr. Gardner) has the largest majority in the land. It is a convention of this House—and rightly so—that I should speak of my predecessor and his contribution to Parliament and to his constituency, but in so doing I cannot forbear first to mention my right hon. Friend the Member for Brighton, Pavilion (Mr. Amery), who presided over an even smaller majority in 1964, of but 14. I was warned, upon becoming the Conservative candidate for Preston, North, that a certain convent in the constituency, numbering some 14 members at that time, had been given permission by the Pope to vote for the first time in that election. The figures, of course, spoke for themselves, and hon. Members will not be surprised to learn that I paid court to them with due deference. The result is plain for all to see. My immediate predecessor, Ron Atkins, was a Member of this House for nine years, during which time he was an excellent constituency Member, perhaps as a result of his knowledgeable membership of Preston borough council. His reputation in this regard was one of the most daunting parts of his armoury during the campaign. If I am able to emulate his level of activity on behalf of constituents, I shall have done very well indeed. He was known in the House for his chairmanship of his party's Back-Bench transport committee and also for his joint sponsorship, with the hon. and learned Member for Leicester, West (Mr. Janner), of the petition for the retirement of men at 60—evidence of his concern for and interest in the wellbeing of older members of society. I wish him well in his enforced retirement from this House. My constituency is half of the town which refers to itself as proud Preston—with good reason, for it has much of which to be proud, this year especially, for it is the 800th anniversary of the first charter, granted by Henry II in 1179. The celebration was graced only last month by the presence of Her Majesty the Queen. This makes Preston arguably the oldest—and certainly the second oldest—guild borough in England. Preston, North covers a part of the former county borough of Preston and the whole of the former urban district of Fulwood. It includes within its boundaries the site of the Battle of Preston during the second Civil War in 1648. It also includes Preston prison—whose enforced inmates cannot—like the members   of the convent, subscribe to my majority—and Fulwood barracks, the headquarters of the North-West district of the Army. May I say now, Mr. Deputy Speaker, how much the Army appreciated an entirely deserved and much overdue pay increase? Perhaps the most important attraction to many Prestonians—and the scene of Tom Finney's many triumphs—is Preston North End football club, promoted last year from division III to division II, seventh in that division, and destined, I am sure, for division I as soon as possible. In a more serious vein, I wish to say that many of my constituents work for British Aerospace, the military aircraft division of which is situated in three locations around Preston, famous for the Canberra, the ill-fated TSR2 and, latterly, the Jaguar and the Tornado, whose delivery is urgently awaited by the Royal Air Force. How good it was last week to see the first aircraft roll off the production line. One also noted the £1,500 million deal clinched in Paris the other day for a further 164 Tornado aircraft for the German, Italian and our own air forces—providing jobs as well as the defence of our freedom. I wish to say how saddened I and, I am sure, many other hon. Members are by the loss of the prototype aircraft yesterday, and paticularly the lives of the pilot and navigator. No words of mine can truly express the admiration and appreciation that I have for the bravery of these men who testfly aircraft, both civilian and military. Their deaths are a tragedy, and I wish to express my sympathy to relatives, and to colleagues in BAC and in the RAF. I have complete faith in the people who designed and manufactured this aircraft, and I am sure that the problem that may have caused this crash will not prove to be insuperable. On the subject of defence, I wish to press Her Majesty's Government to bring same continuity into defence planning rather than the fits and starts which have so dominated it in recent years. For example, I want an early decision on the next aircraft in the front line, the so-called AST403. Finally, in the context of BAC, I wish to remind the House of the 2,000-plus  shop floor workers in the Preston factories who signed the petition against the nationalisation of the aircraft industry. I support the Government's policy of returning some of the share capital to the hands of the work force and the general public. But, in view of the sensitive nature of the industry, I ask the Government to proceed with care in the implementation of such plans. The other large employer in my constituency is Courtaulds, in which work many Prestonians of Asian background. I am glad that Her Majesty's Government are supporting, as the Conservatives did in opposition, the multi-fibre arrangement, which is so important to our textile industry, especially since so many of the Asians in Courtaulds work very hard to save money to become small business men on their own account. The loss of their jobs or reduction in their earning power would have far-reaching effects on the future advancement of the free-enterprise and self-sufficiency ethic so crucial to the development of our society—a fact recognised so well by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget—and especially important to the Asian community who contribute so much to our life and culture in Preston. I wish briefly to refer to the Central Lancashire new town. This is a continuing source of both hope and concern to many of my constituents. There is hope because of the much-needed cash which is being injected into the regeneration and rehabilitation of the older terraced areas of the town, and also the new jobs that will follow the industrial redevelopment. The concern relates to the older house owners about the future of their own, often much-loved, homes and particularly in the more rural area to the north and east of the constituency, at the building of distributor roads and factories on green field sites—a state of affairs to which I am wholly opposed. Preston is a town in the centre of Lancashire in the geographical and administrative sense. It can, I am so informed, even be found in the new AA book of towns if one looks hard enough. It has the good fortune to be controlled by a Conservative council which has reduced the rate burden from the highest in the country to the lowest in just three years. This is the evidence that the people of   Preston saw of Tory policies in action—enough to attract a majority of them to the Tory Party in Preston, and indeed to the country, on 3 May. As a cross-section of the nation in the wide variety of their origins, creeds and talents, their collective view is representative of the country as a whole. They welcome this Budget, incorporating as it does so many of the policies for which they voted in May, and believe, as I do, that it represents a major step in the direction of incentive, reward for industry and encouragement for those who want to do well both for Britain and in Britain.
