gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech in this debate. It is some five and three quarter hours since I entered the Chamber and, as hon. Members will realise, to double that time gives eleven and a half hours. That time is significant for the hon. Member for Newcastle-under-Lyme (Mr. Golding). I now have some practice in listening to other hon. Members, which I may need at a later stage of the Bill. I am the fifth Member to make a maiden speech in today's debate. I am tempted to relate some of my thoughts, but as they relate to my experience as a rugby referee they might be deleted from the record. I am the fifth Tory candidate for my constituency of Kingswood, which is situated half in and half out of Bristol. It is often assumed to be a Midlands constituency, but it actually lies alongside Bristol. All the five Tory candidates are now serving Members of Parliament. The constituency includes a substantial part of the old constituency of Bristol, South-East, whose previous representative, Mr. Benn, was defeated in one of the most commented-on upsets of the last election. I have no doubt  that we shall see him return to the Labour Benches in the near future. I hope that he will serve his new constituency as well as he served Bristol, South-East. Another part of my constituency is part of the firmer constituency of Bristol, North-East, which was ably represented for many years by Arthur Palmer. He was probably the best servant of the city of Bristol for very many years. Throughout his parliamentary career he sought not only to serve his constituency but to represent the city as a whole. Another hon. Member who gave me some of his territory is my hon. Friend the Member for Wansdyke (Mr. Aspinwall). While I will do many things for my constituency, I will not parachute from an aeroplane. My constituency has the rare distinction in the south and centre of England of not having a railway line. When the Serpell report is eventually debated I shall be able to take a neutral stance because my constituency does not have a railway line to be put at risk. However, it is situated close to the M4 and the M32. It is in the valley of high technology, and for that reason my constituents do not fear the Bill as do some in other parts of Britain. My constituency, together with others surrounding Bristol and on the other side of the river Severn, has shown that substantial investment in high technology can produce the benefit of investment from both within and without. An example of new business that has been attracted to an area just outside my constituency, but from which my constituency will benefit, is Hewlett Packard. My constituency also provides a large proportion of the work forces at British Aerospace and Rolls-Royce. It knows well what high technology is all about and how the nation can benefit from the development of the telecommunications industry. Although the constituency is based on the new high-technology industries, it is also a constituency of tradition and convention. It is made up of a series of small villages which have been merged. My constituents hold traditional values in relation to the family and the Church and I shall defend those values for as long as I represent my constituency, which I hope will be for a long time. The Boundary Commission formed my constituency from parts of three former constituencies. Some of my constituents never know which constituency they will be in next. Every Boundary Commission report since the last war has moved part of the constituency into another constituency. One area has not had the opportunity of returning the same Member of Parliament at two successive general elections since 1959. My constituents are not afraid of new developments in high technology and are positively willing to participate in them—for example, in British Aerospace and Hewlett Packard. It depresses me to hear discussions based on fear of the changes associated with the liberalisation and ultimately the denationalisation of British. Telecommunications in the Bill. Those changes provide opportunities in the telecommunications industry, and in the industries associated with supplying BT, for changing and updating. The three major suppliers of BT have operated for too long as part of the monopoly and have lagged further and further behind in the development of technology, which is why Opposition Members today say that they are afraid of foreign competition. Businesses have failed to invest in new technology. Some businesses have taken the opportunity to invest in and improve their products over   the last few years. It is sad that Opposition Members are worried about protecting jobs created by industry and are not seizing the opportunity that the development associated with the telecommunications industry might provide to export to other parts of the world. That is where opportunities lie. If we develop our industry through competition, we shall have the opportunity of exporting. Over the last five or 10 years our record in competing with Ericsons in Sweden, with Siemens and with the French and the Americans, has been lamentable. I hope that the development achieved through the Bill will generate opportunities to export to other parts of the world. I dislike the wording in clause 3, but shall not go into detail about it because it has been referred to at length on previous occasions, and I favour the strengthening of the wording in clause 17. My hon. Friend the Member for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd) commented at length on the dangers associated with cross-financing. Those dangers are not, as the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Penhaligon) pointed out, associated only with services for rural areas, but also with undermining competition. Oftel must consider that carefully and ensure that cross-financing does not put at risk services in rural areas or endanger competition. I conclude on a personal note. I was very pleased when the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry spoke about the research and development financing intended to provide funds for the deaf and the blind. I have been blind and, therefore, take special interest in such research and development and the financing of it. I shall not allow the Minister, as I am sure other hon. Members will not, to reduce the level of financing and thereby denude the potential for research and development.
