gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I crave the indulgence which is so generously given to hon. Members on the first occasion that they address this House? Up to the moment the County of Dorset has done remarkably well as I follow my noble Friend the Member for Dorset, South (Viscount Hinchingbrooke). I understand that maiden speeches should be non-contentious and in taking part in this Debate, I feel I am speaking on a Bill which will be welcomed by the Agricultural community and the general public alike. I live in an area where we have two commons which will benefit by the passing of this Bill. To the north of Shaftesbury we have the Semley Common which is intersected by the road A. 350; to the south we have St. James's Common which is intersected by the road E. 3091. Until the outbreak of war these commons had   several gates across the roads. They were hung during the grazing period which is from 15th May until 15th November. Soon after the outbreak of war they were smashed by troops driving in the blackout. Since then, quite rightly, the police have forbidden the re-erection of these gates on account of the danger to human lives. It is, however, necessary to keep animals confined to the common. I am pleased to say that we have a continual increase in the number of attested herds in our area. On farms which adjoin the commons it is almost impossible to establish an attested herd. Unfortunately, however, with unrestricted access to these commons, this point applies to farms which are two, or even three, miles away. Animals wander at will, and the police cannot charge the owners for letting them stray on the highway as, in the interests of public safety they will not have the enclosing gates re-erected. I should like to say a few words about public safety. Some years before the war, I was returning to Shaftesbury one evening at dusk, and as I approached St. James's Common I saw a cyclist crash into one of these gates. Both he and the machine went over it, fortunately without any damage to the cyclist. As a result, I was successful in persuading the local authority to erect warning notices on each side of the gates on this common. As is well known to many Members of this House, Shaftesbury stands on a hill and each road leading from it is winding and steep, and each passes through a cutting. In the autumn when the winter gales start, the cattle from the common, naturally, seek shelter. Without doubt, the best shelter is in these cuttings. It is not unusual, on a stormy night, to find large herds lying across the highway. Local motorists drive with caution, because they are aware of the danger, but strangers passing through the district are not, and each year cars are damaged and cattle are injured. On occasion, cattle have to be destroyed. By my remarks, I hope I have been able to strengthen the case for this Bill. My noble Friend the Member for Dorset, South (Viscount Hinchingbrooke) has already said that notices should be erected on each side of the grid so that ample warning of their existence is given. I am of opinion that the notices should be erected on steel  posts, and I suggest, as a most suitable sign, that they should read "" Warning: Grid across road."" Then motorists would be aware of their existence, and this would enable people to pass freely along these highways. I should like to thank the Minister for his assurance that he will consult all interested bodies before presenting the draft regulations mentioned in Clause 10. The Minister has given certain assurances on the question of finance, but that it will be of little use passing this Bill unless he makes special grants to local authorities to enable them to carry out the work. Local authorities are finding it increasingly difficult, as a result of cuts and increased costs, to do the necessary work of road making and repair. They could not undertake the work which is envisaged on their present income. I am told that the County Council of Wiltshire has had a report from the county surveyor that the new petrol Duty will cost the roads and bridges department an additional £7,000 a year, and that the only possible way in which the money can be found is by a reduction of the amount spent on road repairs. Therefore, I ask the Minister to assure us that he will make special grants for the installation of these grids
