gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Perhaps one may take the opportunity in one's maiden speech to refer to a few items over and above the foreign affairs matters which are under discussion. I am advised by some of my hon. Friends that the longer one delays in making one's maiden speech, the better that speech is expected to be. For this reason I am making my maiden speech at the earliest opportunity. My predecessor who represented North-East Bristol was Mr. Ray Dobson, and I wish to pay tribute to him. He was held in very high repute in my constituency and I know that he was similarly held in this House. Personally, it is perhaps sad that  my presence here has been achieved only at the cost of his departure. I hope, however, that the House may come to feel that fair exchange is no robbery. Perhaps I should consider myself fortunate to be here, in that the list of new hon. Members published by The Times on the Saturday following the General Election omitted my name and substituted for it the name of my opponent. I am not sure whether that was wishful thinking on the part of the editor, but it caused me some embarrassment, and no doubt it caused Mr. Dobson a certain amount of embarrassment, too. Bristol is a fine city. It is not difficult to think of things to say about it. It is more difficult to think of the things to leave out when speaking about it. Bristol, the city of Burke and the Merchant Venturers, is outward looking and well suited to a foreign affairs debate. Recently it has seen the return of the old steamship ""Great Britain"". As chairman of the Brunel Society and one of the original lunatics, as it were, who tried to bring her home, it gave me great pleasure yesterday in Bristol to observe her return. Tourism is another item to which I wish to refer in connection with the City of Bristol and in so doing I express the hope that some time in the months and years ahead we may have an opportunity to debate not only the rôle of the City of Bristol but also the rôle of this country as one of Europe's major tourist areas. The docks of Bristol are also outward looking, and I look forward to the development of our docks, which were not positively encouraged by the policy of the Labour Administration. I understand that tradition dictates that a maiden speaker should not be too controversial. I will, therefore, say no more on this issue. The Concorde is another outward looking venture based on the City of Bristol. I refuse to contemplate the possibility that a Government, my Government, elected to promote the individuality, energy and enthusiasm of the British people, and determined to accelerate the growth of European co-operation, could contemplate any course other than immediate, unequivocal and determined support for Concorde. This afternoon a number of hon. Members have eloquently put the case for   and against British membership of the E.E.C. If I had to choose in a referendum between the views expressed by my hon. Friend the Member for Knutsford (Mr. John Davies) and the right hon. Member for Battersea, North (Mr. Jay), I might possibly vote for the former; but I leave that subject there because it has been adequately covered and because I am anxious to return to ""Great Britain"". This ship came from the Falkland Islands. I am hopeful that the foreign affairs policies of the present Government will be to do what we know is right and to stand by our friends. I am sure that the people of the Falkland Islands can look forward to receiving the backing and support which they need in the maintenance of their links with this country, from which, without exception, all of their citizens are descended. I urge my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary to endeavour to see that the basis of our foreign policy is that we stand up to the bullies of the world. Let us examine the bullies in the areas of conflict and tumult and try to see who they are. Who are the bullies in the Middle East? Who wants what? Who wants to ""live and let live""? Who adopts the attitude of ""the right way, the wrong way, or my way""? As we try to answer these questions, we must at the same time decide which side we should be supporting in this conflict. Who in the Middle East seems to have been prepared to see people rot in camps for 20 years to achieve their own political ends? In the Middle East and elsewhere it is not only the balance of strength which counts. As the Foreign Secretary pointed out, the moral arguments must be uppermost in our minds. And if we are examining morals, by whose standards should we seek to judge the situation in the Middle East, as elsewhere? Will it be by the standards of a country which indulges in public executions or even by the standards of countries whose defence policies are controlled by the Soviet Union? Surely we should press for clear, simple, straightforward and direct negotiations as the only method of achieving any solution to the Middle East problem. Unless and until we can get all the parties face to face round the conference table,  there will never be any solution to this most vexed and thorny problem. I will mention the Gulf only briefly because it is not an area with which I am familiar. However, it seems that if we pull out of the Gulf, somebody else will move in. It is unrealistic to expect that Britain can depart from the Gulf area and leave peace behind. Can we be certain that the ""international bullies"" will not be moving in when we depart? The Caribbean has scarcely been mentioned in this debate, other than in connection with sugar negotiations for Common Market entry, but we have a rôle to play in this area. ""Mutual understanding"" is more than a phrase there. I have had the pleasure and benefit of making numerous visits to the Caribbean. There are people there who understand us and whom we understand; people in countries like Trinidad and Barbados. These countries understand what we are trying to do. These countries are not bullies and they deserve our support as they try to make their way in the world. I know the Far East well and I have lived and worked in the area for some years. Indeed, I might claim to be one of the few hon. Members who was able to speak Thai. Unfortunately my knowledge of the language has lapsed severely in the last few years. In Thailand's North, ""Red China"" is not just a journalist's phrase. In Chiengmai it means a great deal more than it means in, for example, Caithness, if I may say that respectfully to the hon. Member for Caithness and Sutherland (Mr. Maclennan). We must be prepared to stand up to the ""international bullies"" in the Far East. We hear a great deal of criticism of the Government's east of Suez policy, as it is called, yet one rarely hears a mention of Hong Kong, either from hon. Gentlemen opposite—when they were in office or now, in opposition—or from my own Front Bench. We were told, when in Government, that hon. Gentlemen opposite intended fully to pull out of the Middle East. While my geography is bad, surely the number of troops whom they intended to maintain in Hong Kong could hardly be classed as not being representative of a presence in that area. On the defence and moral issues there is far less strategic value to maintaining a presence in Hong Kong than in Malaysia or Singapore. Singapore has one of the finest Governments in the world, although it is probably true to say that the People's Action Party was not always held in that view. When I lived there Lee Kuan Yew was thought to be little less than a dangerous Communist! Time may perhaps have mellowed him, but I think that he can claim that his Government is one of the finest in the world. I had the pleasure and privilege of spending 90 minutes in private conversation with the Foreign Secretary of Singapore. The Foreign Secretary there also has the portfolio of Minister of Labour, which is an interesting combination that possibly we might examine in this country. I also had the pleasure recently of attending a banquet to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the landing of Raffles in Singapore. What greater incongruity in this tumultuous world could one find than the Prime Minister of Singapore eloquently praising the colonial founder of what is now one of the most prosperous and stable areas not only in the Far East but in Asia generally? Many years prior to that I attended the ""Merdeka"" celebrations day in Kuala Lumpur. In many ways our standards are theirs. Surely Opposition members must recognise that there are beyond defence reasons and beyond financial reasons and beyond strategic reasons for this House and the country to support the Governments of Malaysia and Singapore. Singapore and Malaysia are together one of the few places which I would say were definitely better in the post-colonial era following the departure of the British. If we were honest, we would admit that there are not many places which one can say are happier now than they were 10 or 15 years ago, but Singapore and Malaysia are undoubtedly two. I am delighted that the Government have decided to support these Governments, not only in a defence treaty but also on the basis of supporting two Governments whose interest is in providing for their people a democratic system of Government, and a system which is certainly far more democratic than that of other Governments in that region. My right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary stated a year ago that our Far Eastern policy was a good insurance policy. There are defence reasons why it makes good sense and there are commercial reasons why it makes good sense. But, above all, I believe that there are moral reasons why it makes good sense, and I ask the Opposition earnestly to consider that the reasons for our maintaining a presence east of Suez should not be judged purely and simply on the basis of carrying arms—the slur, one might say, of trying to maintain a colonial base. We are reviled quickly enough by countries we seek to help, but here in Malaysia and Singapore we are wanted, we are welcomed. It is almost a Freudian situation for post-colonial Britain and I would regret most seriously any attempt to throw away this almost unique relationship. Perhaps one of the main causes of concern to the Government of Singapore about the policies of the present Opposition when in Government was that that Government's knowledge of Asia and the Far East and of Singapore was not as great as it might have been. It was put to me by a politician in Singapore that the previous Labour Government were led by a man who was unable to find his way from Bugis Street to Bras Basah Road—a remark that might be more apposite in the Singapore Legislature. But there was a feeling that the policies of the previous United Kingdom Government were not based on sound knowledge of the area. I fully support our foreign policy in the Far East. Once again we have a foreign policy. This is something about which I am greatly enthusiastic, and I venture to suggest that in Singapore on 19th June a message went from the Foreign Office there to the Foreign Office in Kuala Lumpur, probably in the simple phrase, ""Alec is back"". My right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary will receive a splendid welcome in Singapore next year when, as I hope, he attends the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference, and that from a Government so upstanding as that of Lee Kuan Yew would be a very well deserved compliment indeed.
