gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is a maiden speech, I must crave the indulgence of the House and, as a member of what the right hon. Member for Walthamstow, West (Mr. Attlee) might call the ""Third Eleven,"" I must also crave its double indulgence. The occasion of a maiden speech often provides a chance to refer at some length to one's constituency and, indeed, to one's constituents. If that be so, hon. Members may think that I have chosen the wrong occasion on which to make my maiden speech, because I can think of no Motion which it would be more difficult to relate directly to one's constituency. But let me say that, in the constituency of Londonderry which I have the honour to represent, I know that there is a large body of opinion which will support the views that I propose now to put forward. Of the others, let me say that I hope they will not condemn them out of hand. I find no difficulty in accepting the terms of this Motion. The case, or rather the body of opinion which the Government have to meet, is twofold. Outside this House there has grown up a feeling that this 14-day rule, this control, is, to put it forcibly, a form of ramp. It is thought by some less responsible members of the public to be a form of agreement between the ""powers that be,"" which they are sometimes pleased to call the ""establishment,"" to prevent back benchers and people outside from exceeding their own importance and from taking the focus of the country. That is not the real responsible argument   which has to be met in this case. It is an opinion which has grown up. The responsible argument simplified is that the electorate should be as well informed as possible of any current event, and no one will deny that to be true. But, say the critics, the electorate, or rather the public, do not read the newspapers, or if they do, they do not read the political columns; so it is better that they should hear of what goes on through the B.B.C. and the I.T.A. than nothing at all. During the war the B.B.C. gained a deservedly great reputation, which to a very great extent has continued and exists today. No one would quarrel with that reputation. I am quite certain that no one will refer to the B.B.C. during this debate as, I think, Pitt once referred to the Press as the ""chartered libertine of the air."" Owing to the war, and during the war, speakers after the news bulletins found themselves credited with a kind of infallibility which they would never have claimed for themselves. This reputation grew up and has lingered on today. If anyone doubts the credulity of people who listen to wireless programmes, they have only to recall the case which my right hon. Friend mentioned and remember that their sympathies should go out to a lady who ""posthumously"" continued to receive flowers many days after her ""funeral."" If that example is not enough, there is the case of the actress who jocularly appealed for sixpences with which to buy a new mink coat. I never heard whether she got the mink coat, but I did hear that she got enough sixpences to advertise in the papers thanking the donors. That is true of the B.B.C., but what of the I.T.A.? Someone said the other day that the I.T.A. had the power to empty the pubs between 8 and 9 p.m., and there is no other medium which can do that, with the possible horrible exception of watered beer. All of us in some degree or other will probably admit that both the B.B.C. and the I.T.A. are extremely compelling and fascinating media, but it is that which makes the whole thing so dangerous. In the heat of debate accuracy slips by. Anyone can quote an inaccurate and unchecked figure with the greatest ease, and these is no contradiction possible. There is not on I.T.A. and the B.B.C. the  restraining influence of the recording angels here in the Gallery. There is no check on the air. One cannot see in cold print at the breakfast table the next morning what one has said on Independent Television. There is nothing that is a really serious check. It is also true, as already mentioned, that conventional views are rarely heard on the B.B.C., and Ministers, as we know, are never heard at all. We have heard much of this question of freedom of speech. Does freedom of speech, as the situation stands today, really exist? As the right hon. Gentleman rightly said, ordinary members of the public cannot go to the B.B.C. and say, ""Look, we want to broadcast."" They will get no answer to that. The real problem is the question of selection. As it is, only a handful of Members or other people outside the House can attain to the B.B.C. or the I.T.A. programmes. Who broadcasts, who is televised, is determined by anonymous producers who are very much more interested in listener research figures than they probably are—and I say this with respect—in providing a balanced and realistic argument, with the result that people are apt to hear what is possibly a minority view and certainly not—it is debatable whether it should be—the party line from either side of the House. It is often argued that the party line is heard, but it is not. This is almost never heard. I must confess that I have some sympathy with those people who object to that part of the directive which has the effect of limiting the freedom of Members of Parliament to discuss Private Bills. There are some 20 or 30 such Bills before the House at the moment dealing with a wide range of subjects, and we are prevented from saying anything about them. In fact, many of them may never be heard of again. It seems a pity that nothing can be said about them on the air just now. In future, probably, the people who now put down Private Members' Bills will not even bother to do so on subjects which really matter, because they know that once they are down they cannot be discussed on the air, at least by Members of Parliament, and that a great deal of valuable publicity will be lost. I have also some sympathy with, but perhaps not a great understanding of, the Amendment put down by the hon. Lady the Member for Flint, East (Mrs. White),   which concerns regional broadcasting. I should like to ask the Postmaster-General to clear up one point. Can he tell me whether the 14-day rule in fact applies to Northern Ireland and to business transacted in the House at Stormont? It may be of interest to those who are concerned with the claims of Scottish and Welsh nationalists to know that there is, I understand, a rule—and I hope I may be corrected if I am wrong—that in a Northern Ireland election for the Northern Ireland House of Commons an Irish nationalist is, by agreement with other parties, perfectly entitled to air his views. I do not know whether that would be considered equitable by everybody when in this country Welsh and Scottish nationalists have at no time on the B.B.C. a chance to air their views. There is another small point. In Northern Ireland now the Sinn Fein party is reappearing. I hope that the Postmaster-General is perfectly satisfied that we shall not at the next General Election hear the air being used to produce a clarion call for recruits for the Irish Republican Army. But I must leave that topic. Ever since the days of Canning, who first realised the importance of this principle, it has been regarded as important that Members of Parliament and Ministers should go to their constituencies and expound their views on current and important topics. I believe very strongly in that, because I believe that the very best form of political discussion, other than in this House, is not what takes place in the Press, nor, if I may say so with respect, the ipse dixit of handsome political entertainers; it is surely the give and take of our political meetings in our own constituencies. Our constituents come not only to hear us but to be heard, if they want to speak themselves, and give expression to their opinions. My own constituency is still partially beyond the umbrella of television. My own meetings are well-attended, and I find them extremely valuable. That is one way in which one can know something of the opinions of one's constituents. The real question before us is where the lead is to come from in political opinion in this country. Is it to come from political stars or from those who by their  responsibilities and their ability have found their way to the forefront in this House, and from those, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, whom you call to address the House?
