gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I believe that it is customary for an hon. Member making a maiden speech to indulge in some pleasantries, but such is the grave situation in Northern Ireland that I shall have to set aside those pleasantries and get down to the facts which unfortunately some hon. Members on both sides of the House will not face. I am privileged to represent Belfast, South. It is a constituency in which there are two distinct groupings. It is largely a residential constituency. It contains many working-class people and a tremendous number of professional and managerial people. Many of those people are in positions of great trust and responsibility in the commercial and professional life of Belfast. I represent a constituency which is far from having a kind of backwoodsman mentality. It has a broad cross-section of the population of Northern Ireland. There are some questions which I believe our people are asking themselves tonight. The first question is when this honourable House will give the British Army—our army—and the Royal Ulster Constabularly the freedom which they need to deal fully and completely with terrorism. We have been told of recent initiatives. One such initiative took place in my constituency. An Army search took place in the Ormeau Road but no such search was conducted in the Markets area, a renowned terrorist area from which bombs and terrorists exude. It is a well-known fact, which apparently is admitted by the security forces in Northern Ireland, that the bomb which created such havoc during the weekend in the centre of Belfast came from the Markets area. The second question which our folk are asking is when the British Government will cease deliberately to miss the point. It is not enough to align the UDA and the UVF with the IRA. It is not enough to state that the Protestant extremists are as bad as the Republican extremists. We in the United Ulster Party deplore so-called Protestant Ulster extremists. We deplore any man who bombs, kills or shoots in our name. He does not fight our cause. He does not fight our battle. But we must remember   that the violence and the terrorism began with the IRA. It continues under the clear auspices of that movement, and because of the ineptitude of this House and of the forces under strict political control there was reaction, and there still is reaction. Another piece of casuistry can be found in the Secretary of State's continual references to the Ulster Freedom Fighters. It might interest the House to know that, when Senator Fox was murdered, within minutes the UFF claimed responsibility, but the security forces of the Republic are perfectly clear and aware that the IRA committed the murder. Not one single case involving the UFF has come forward to my knowledge for trial, and not one person claiming to be a member of the UFF has been brought before our courts. It really will not do for the issue to be clouded deliberately by such casuistry by the present Government. We are always asked to accept democratic rule by a democratic body. We are prepared to accept the democratic ruling of this democratic House as long as the content of its legislation is democratic in itself. But that is not the case with the Constitution Act, which disgraces the very name and concept of democracy. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Down, South (Captain Orr) has elaborated on that point, and I shall not take the time of this honourable House in reiterating his statement. The Constitution Act bears no resemblance to democratic legislation. Indeed, it is interesting to note that this House refuses some of the things involved and included in the Act because they do not reflect the kind of traditions which obtain in the United Kingdom. For example, there was refusal to accept power sharing in this House but for the Ulster people it is regarded as being the only answer. We have in the Constitution Act a distortion and a freak of democracy. The great Lion of Judah has brought forth a subtle, slimy snake called Sunningdale, and we are asked to accept that this is British democracy. I think that the root cause of the confusion is the fact that in Northern Ireland there is an attempt by aspirants and supporters of one sovereign State to disinherit another sovereign State. I do not care how far one goes back in history—whether  it be three, four or seven centuries or even to William the Conqueror; the facts are simple. The people of Northern Ireland are citizens of the United Kingdom. They are under attack by the aspirants and the supporters of another sovereign State and there has been the deliberate confusion of a political issue with a religious issue. This honourable House would never conceive of a time when, if there were enough of them, the Pakistanis here would declare that this island, because they had a majority, should become a colony of Pakistan. Morally, however, there is no difference in the situation in Ulster. Ulster is British. Ulster wishes to remain British. Ulster does not want to be disinherited and will not be disinherited. I have not attempted today to rattle the sabre. I will not attempt at this stage to rattle the sabre. But I warn this honourable House, as my hon. and gallant Friend has done, that the people of Northern Ireland will not take for ever the rejection of their democratically expressed views and opinions. I had hoped that the Labour Government would indulge in honest, open government. They made that claim at the beginning of the Session with reference to other parliamentary matters. They have promised the country, and rightly so, to look again at the EEC membership into which we were dragged without the consultation which had been promised. They have said that they will look for the mind of the United Kingdom on that issue. Why, then, are the Government denying the Ulster people precisely the same right to express their opinion on a matter which is so very dear to our hearts—our continued membership of this wonderful and historic nation? We ask for nothing more than to be permitted to remain British and to have that status safeguarded, not by the devious document called the Constitution Act, but in clear, explicit terms which can and must and, I trust, will go from this honourable House. There are faithful sons and daughters in Ulster tonight who are waiting for the return of a prodigal mother.
