gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I intervene in the debate to make only one or two points. I agree with a great deal of what has been said, and therefore I shall not delay the House longer than is necessary. Generally speaking, the Bill has been well received on both sides of the House. It has been called, quite rightly, a complicated Measure. I believe that it will be welcomed, amongst other things, as a long-delayed recognition of the right of the occupier, whose land and livelihood have been removed, to compensation for loss of income. We have been reminded that opencast coal has saved the country about £100 million annually for the past 17 years. I agree with the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Nabarro) that opencast coal mining is disliked and generally deplored. That applies to both town and country. Quite a number of urban areas are threatened in that adjacent open green spaces may possibly be torn up. That is the case in my own constituency, where opencast coal mining has come close to the town and may come again. Although opencast coal mining is generally loathed, it has to be accepted. Those people who have disliked seeing green and pleasant land torn up have at least seen it torn up in the national interest. It has been the hope of so many that this method of mining would come to an end. The right hon. Member for Blyth (Mr. Robens) suggested that opencast coal mining may become a permanent method of production. He also suggested that we cannot estimate beyond ten years. I suggest that so long as it is in the national interest it must continue, and in consequence this Bill quite reasonably makes certain solid provisions. It is always to be hoped that when land is required for this purpose it can be acquired with full agreement on all sides. The Bill quite rightly includes a provision regarding compulsory rights orders. I express the hope that a compulsory rights order will be the last resort in every case, and that every effort shall be made before a compulsory rights order is made. I further suggest that the general atmosphere of co-operation can be further improved by a stricter control on restoration conditions. We have heard a great deal about this problem this afternoon. Certain early sites were very badly restored. The code of restoration in existence is non-statutory. I am quite sure that the force of law in this direction will be more than welcome. I agree   with the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Grey), who suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture might be consulted at certain stages. Surely the Ministry of Power and the Ministry of Agriculture might very well work together regarding restoration. I should like to emphasise also the possible danger to land of terminal compensation. This type of compensation surely should be paid on the condition that it is spent on the affected land. I realise that complete restoration to a former state is sometimes quite impossible. Timber and identical buildings obviously cannot be replaced. However, I contend that the principle of compensation paid being ploughed back should be accepted. The provisions in the Bill regarding compensation are generally reasonable. It is inevitable that the calculation of lost incomes, based, as they must be, on a notional rent and on a notional productivity, must be hypothetical. I contend that the problem of compensation should be considered against the background of the average farmer's very natural resentment at this interruption in what is, after all, his chosen way of life. Loss of profits is far from all that the average farmer who has known this interruption to his life is interested in. The Bill will not compensate him for the loss of the pleasure of the pursuit of his everyday work or for the enjoyment of the peace of his home. Much has been said today about opencast coal methods, but I believe that a tribute should be paid to those people who have suffered during the past seventeen years. They have not complained a great deal, despite the fact that in many cases, as the hon. Member for Ince (Mr. T. Brown) has stated, the opencast workings came close to their homes. There are many cases of homes being demolished. It does sometimes seem quite unnecessary to remove a house and farm buildings for the sake of the coal underneath. I conclude by paying my tribute to those people who have put up with a great deal, and are in the national interest prepared to put up with a great deal more in order that opencast coal mining can continue.
