gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy Speaker, many hon. Members making maiden speeches are able to start by wishing their retired Members pleasant and long retirements. Sadly, that pleasure is denied me, because my election as the Member of Parliament for Aberdeen, North was marred, in terms of celebration, by the death of Hector Hughes swimming in the sea off Brighton. Hector Hughes was not a native of the city of Aberdeen, although he represented Aberdeen, North for 25 years. It is, in a sense, axiomatic that an incomer to a community can love it with even greater fervour than a native resident. Hector Hughes loved Aberdeen, and, indeed, was loved by Aberdeen. I am sure that his loss is mourned by both sides of the House as greatly as in the city itself. By a curious quirk of fate, the name of Hughes as the Member for Aberdeen, North continues. I doubt whether I can bring to this Chamber as much charm and humour as did my predecessor. However, I hope that in my varied interests I can bring to this House the sense of involvement that he always displayed in his business in Parliament. My constituency cannot be isolated geographically, in the sense that it is half of one of Scotland's major cities, but I am sure that I speak for the whole city and for the region concerning regional development policy. For many years the city has suffered lack of job opportunity and there has been a great migration of   young skilled citizens. If we examine ""The Scottish Economy""—Cmnd. 2864—in paragraph 201 on page 51 it reports: Much the heaviest net migration from the North-East comes from the Aberdeen area. It comprises some of the best labour in Scotland and most of it 'overflies' the central belt, going direct to England and overseas. On page 119 the report lists the kind of places to which our skilled labour has been going: Corby, Rugby, Scunthorpe and Luton, which are all engineering towns. This means that the industry, with which I am very much involved, is being denuded of the kind of skilled labour that we can ill-afford to lose. The greater this loss of population the more difficult it is to attract new industry to the area. We want to attract industry which brings not only jobs, but also high earning potential. We have recently had success in being able to attract to the area a computer manufacturing company. This we welcome. It is also suggested—we believe this to be true now—that we may be getting a factory which will manufacture tyres. These are growth industries. They are industries with considerable financial backing. This is the kind of industry that we want. I am grateful to the Minister of Technology for his Answer yesterday to my Question, that the existing development areas in Scotland are not to be altered at present. Certainly I welcome this for Aberdeen, although the City of Edinburgh and Leith will regard their expectations as having been dashed to the ground. Looking at the Gaskin Report on the development potential of the north-east of Scotland, we are concerned that many of our manufacturing industries are small. Many of the new industries coming to our area are also small and do not have great financial backing. Therefore, we express the greatest concern about the possibility of the change from investment grants to profit incentives. Our industries, which we hope will have growth, do not have the resources available to give them the spurt forward which they need. We are desperately disturbed that, on a number of different occasions on a number of specific queries, the Government have denied us the opportunity of knowing whether they will spend at least the same amount in Scotland as their predecessors in Government. This  is important to our region and to our people. I hope that at some time today we will get an answer from the Government about their precise policy and how much money will be spent. A sphere where perhaps money can be made available and be given value, if the Government would tackle it in a sensible fashion, is in the financing of house building. The passage in the Gracious Speech about the fashioning of housing subsidies is fatuously irrelevant to the needs of local authorities. I come from a local authority which has a fine housing record, and I hope that I shall not be accused of immodesty, as I am still a member of that local authority, if I say that we have built 18,000 houses since 1945—a significant contribution—but now, like every other local authority in Scotland, we are facing a crisis of how we finance that. Last year, simply to service the interest alone, we had to raise £2,354,705. The House may wonder where the money has gone. That was purely to service the house building. The actual capital repayment was only £492,000. If one considers a 15-year period and examines what has been happening to our housing accounts, one finds that in servicing interest the City of Aberdeen has spent more than £17 million, whilst being able to repay a capital sum of only £4½ million. If one looks at the effect that this has on houses being built, one finds that, for every house built, at current interest rates we add £330 per annum to the servicing of interest, or £6 per week per house. How, in those circumstances, one can have any sensible policy of house building I cannot imagine. If the Government wish to see value for money, I hope they will agree—though I do not suppose they will—that where money has been wholly repaid, interest on it should cease. Where money has been not been wholly repaid, an allowance should be made for reasonable profit, and thereafter interest should cease. The future prospects of providing money for local authorities should be on a direct cash basis of grant, and thereafter any money raised at local authority level could be used to help the environment of housing needs. If that were done, we would be saved from the tremendous economic slavery under which we are working now. It has been said in the Lobbies and corridors of the House—it is a massive rumour—when the House rises on 24th July it will not return until 18th November.
