gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope the House will forgive my taking this opportunity of ridding myself of the agony of a maiden speech, but this seems  a suitable opportunity for me to make it and, having made it, I hope then to be able to take part in the controversy of the House. I understand from my colleagues that it is not customary for a maiden speech to be highly controversial; so I will select two aspects of the Gracious Speech on which, apparently, both sides of the House are completely agreed. My first point is the question of full employment. In my constituency, only three weeks ago 200 highly skilled gas oven makers were dismissed from their employment and 1,400 highly-skilled workers in the same establishment are today on short time. The establishment to which I refer is the Cannon Iron Foundries, who produce some of the finest gas stoves in the world. The managing director of that factory, who is not a Socialist, attributes this unemployment to the policy of the present Government. He claims that the controls imposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on hire purchase make it necessary for a housewife to pay a deposit of £9 on stoves that his company manufactures, whereas previously a housewife could possess a stove after paying a deposit of only £1. Consequently, those retailers who hold stocks of the stoves are using up their supplies and are placing no further orders. If that statement has any meaning at all, it means that we have the beginnings of deflation; and a deflationary policy, in its last analysis, must mean unemployment. I am greatly surprised, therefore, to read in the Gracious Speech that there is no difference of opinion on the question of full employment. The factory to which I have referred—the Cannon Iron Foundries, in Bilston—planned to build a great new factory at a cost of £2 million to create a thousand new jobs in my constituency. This new factory, which was to have produced gas stoves for the export market, is no longer to be built. The whole project has been halted. I repeat, the reason for the unemployment in the Bilston gas stove industry, the reason for the short time of 1,400 workers, the reason a £2 million new project has been halted, is, according to the managing director, the deflationary policy of the Government. I am not being controversial. I know a little about simple economics. My modest knowledge of economics tells me that if we withdraw purchasing power from the people, so that they cannot buy the very goods they produce, then we create the situation that existed in this country between the wars, a situation in which there was increased production, in which there were gluts in the markets, but in which there was reduced consuming power, of which the consequence was mass unemployment. What has happened in the Cannon Iron Foundries in Bilston, Staffordshire, can happen throughout the whole of the Black Country if this deflationary policy now beginning is continued. It is my view that the only way to maintain full employment for the people is to expand wealth and production and the purchasing power of the people. Full employment cannot be maintained by the controls imposed by a Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer, controls on the purchasing power of the people. Is it not these deflationary means, which cut consuming power to such an extent that we start again the old evil of unemployment, which many of us remember between the wars? I was ejected from the House in 1934 when I marched with the Lancashire hunger marchers from Lancashire and became so emotional about it that I dared to interrupt the late Ramsay MacDonald when he was Prime Minister. At that time there were 3 million unemployed in the country. Those 3 million workers were denied the right to work, were treated as criminals and outcasts, were denied all the opportunities of life. I hope we shall not allow such a situation to develop again, but in my constituency, in Bilston, there are the beginnings of the deflationary policy that had such evil consequences for our people between the two world wars. I suppose that, in spite of my good intentions, I have been very controversial indeed, so let me pass to another point in the Gracious Speech, namely, the proposed Governmental policy to deal with monopolies. It is a fact that in no other Western country is there a greater degree of industrial concentration than that which we have here in Britain. There is greater monopoly control in Britain, greater cartelisation, than there is in any other  country in the Western world. Earlier in the debate today it was said by the Prime Minister that we on this side of the House urged the development of monopolies. Surely there is a fundamental difference between a private monopoly, in which a group of businessmen control vast industrial concentrations, and a public monopoly which is run to benefit the people, which is under public control, and which is subject to debate in this House and in the Press and over the air? There is a fundamental difference between a concentration of monopoly under the control of the people, under public sanction, which exploits nobody, which is to give a public service, which is imposed because the industry concerned has become bankrupt or is not giving service to the community, and a concentration of industrial power in the hands of a few businessmen purely for their personal profit. In our country there are 160,000 limited liability companies, and I per cent. of that 160,000 employed last year 52 per cent. of all our labour, and they took 62 per cent. of all profits over £1,000 million last year. That is surely a concentration dangerous to the people. That great power in the hands of a few businessmen who are not subject to public control militates against expanding the economy, prevents the development of production. The Monopolies Commission has given many examples of restrictive practices. During the last few months we have seen in the Press example after example. Only last week there was one from Bristol, a case in which seven tenders for cement were submitted and every one was exactly the same. The London County Council received 10 tenders for steel girders to build schools, and every single tender was for the same amount. The local council at West Hartlepool received seven tenders for steel girders for the building of schools, and every one of the tenders to the very last penny was the same as all the others. When the council asked a local firm why it had not tendered, the local firm said it was not in a position to do so because it had some agreement with the ring. How can we bring down the cost of living when there are such restrictions on competition within this mixed economy? If the price of steel girders for school   building is high the cost of education is higher than it should be. If the cost of steel girders is higher than it should be, the cost of every house we build and of every bridge and of every ship we build and of every machine we export is dearer than otherwise it would be. Therefore, our situation is more difficult than it should be, and people are paying more for the goods they need than they would otherwise have to pay or should have to pay. These are elementary facts. The Monopolies Commission issued a Report about the match-making industry, and that Report showed that it costs only 5s. 2d. to make a gross of boxes of matches—144 boxes of matches for 5s. 2d. That means that we ought to be able to buy a dozen boxes of matches for no more than a shilling. That would still enable a high profit to be made by the Match Industry. The hon. and learned Member for Middlesbrough, West (Mr. Simon), who represents a constituency which is a great centre of chemical production, referred to the wonders of that industry. It is quite true that our British chemical industry has advanced very greatly, but it has not advanced half as much as has the chemical industry of America and Germany. Despite our advances, we are not keeping pace with the new discoveries of the chemical world. There is a vast monopoly in the synthetic textiles to which the hon. and learned Member referred. One monopoly in this country controls all our production of nylon, indeed all our production of our most essential new synthetic textile developments. It is not for me in this my maiden speech to mention the name of the firm, but it is well known. It is a great concentration of power in the hands of about 14 directors, employing 100,000 work people and with a profit last year of £49 million. This power is dangerous to our economy. If this one firm controls, as it does, 37 basic chemicals for which there is no competition, and if, as it does, it controls the new wonder textiles, Terylene and nylon, and there is no competition, then it means that this firm can and does restrict production and keep prices high, based on scarcity. It is no discovery but an old fundamental truth that a monopoly can strangle an industry,  and if the monopoly is in a basic industry it can strangle a nation's economy and prevent the carrying out of a policy of full employment and a better standard of living for the people as a whole. I hope that, having made these observations on the Gracious Speech, hon. Members will forgive me for having taken this opportunity of ridding myself of the emotion engendered when speaking in this Chamber for the first time. I hope also that the House will accept my apologies if in my enthusiasm, I have introduced some controversy into a first speech of this nature.
