gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising for the first time in this House, I should like to ask for its indulgence. I want to take a few minutes to mention some subjects which have not yet received attention but which are appropriate to the recent floods. One form of damage which might well receive alleviation is really an indirect one. Businesses which necessarily use imported machinery have to pay import duty on spare parts. I am informed that the object of that duty is not to raise revenue but to protect home industry, and it is therefore reasonable to ask that when as a result of flood devastation emergency imports are necessary in order to get the factories back to work, a concession should be granted so that the Exchequer does not raise extra funds, even if inadvertently, through the misfortune of flood damage. This might well also apply to emergency imports of raw materials to replace those destroyed by flooding. In both cases I am thinking not merely of the firms concerned but of those employed in the firms. In many cases the employers are doing their best to get the works running, even if the equilibrium of production is upset. It is in the interests of local communities that normality should be restored as quickly as possible, even if it is necessary to bring in additional imports as an emergency measure. Secondly, I want to draw attention to the considerable period of time which  can elapse before the full damage to the agricultural community can be assessed. Owing to the very bad weather this year there was a shortage of hay and other feedingstuffs in the West Country; and the loss of this hay owing to the disastrous flooding involves more than the value of the hay itself. A further loss will result from farmers being unable to keep the same number of animals through the winter to sell in the spring. There are other considerations. Owing to the flooding it has been necessary for many farms to sell off a large proportion of their cattle in a short period because they were unable to accommodate them. The result was a significantly greater drop in the market price than would normally have been expected at this time. That is yet another form of damage, although I should be the first to agree that it is an extremely difficult form to assess. I want to deal with the problem of insurance, from two aspects. Some insurance is misleading. I do not necessarily imply that it is sold with the intention of misleading, but I should like to know how many of us look at the fine print in our own insurance policies. I know it to be true that in a number of cases people have paid premiums on insurance policies bearing the word ""comprehensive"" only to find when the risk falls due that among the fine print is the statement that as the house is cob built—that is, the binding is of earth instead of cement—the structure is not covered by the policy. In future we ought to give some attention to the need to ensure, if possible, that insurance which is misleading in effect if not in intent is made more comprehensible to people who avail themselves of it and believe that they are taking all reasonable steps to provide against misfortune. Then there is the problem of uninsurable property. I expect that this will become more serious rather than less serious as a result of the recent flooding. Property which lies in frequently flooded districts may be literally impossible to insure at any figure. We should consider what means we can take to enable the owners of such property to insure it. I fear that as a result of the catastrophic floods the classes of property and the areas in which they are situated and   which are, in effect, commercially uninsurable, may be extended, in which case this problem will become very much more urgent. It is surely particularly so when the Government extend themselves to assist people, that this should not be taken as a disincentive to people to safeguard their own interests as much as is reasonably possible in the future. Certain it is, to my mind, that where there are many cases known locally of people who imagined that they had insured themselves, only to find that in fact they were Mot covered, or, alternatively, people who endeavoured to insure themselves but were unable to do so, there may be an increased rather than a reduced tendency for people to insure against the risk which has been brought home to them in such a disastrous fashion. I wish to pay a personal tribute to the many voluntary organisations which I saw operating, not only in Tiverton, on that disastrous Sunday. In particular, the cadet force and the boys of Blundells School, who operated a radio network which, as the telephone system was to some extent disrupted by the floods, proved extremely useful. The next day they performed the not very pleasant task of taking round large quantities of coal to houses which had been flooded and assisted in sweeping the mud and slime out of those houses. Both these actions have not passed unnoticed by the people who had the misfortune to suffer. I wish to say a word of appreciation to the members of the Civil Defence, because very often it is considered that they exist only for one purpose, to guard—we hope—against the advent of a major catastrophe connected with war rather than with the natural elements. I hope that some people who have some spare time which they can usefully employ might feel that they could give service in this direction, as it would be of such demonstrated value to their fellow citizens. Many of us consider that the police force exists solely either to deter people from crime or apprehend them when they have transgressed. But I think any of us who have seen members of the police forces working at times of disaster such as this must realise that they have other functions as well, which they perform very cheerfully and  humanely and with very great effort and consideration for the people among whom they live.
