gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me to face the House for the first time in this debate. I hope I shall not strain the indulgence of the House too far. For 19 years my constituency of Wells was represented by a man whose sincerity, kindliness and integrity would be difficult for any successor to emulate. The House will know that Commander Lynch Maydon came to the House after a proud record of distinction in the submarine service, a record which even for that service was exceptional. The qualities required of a man to command in turn three of His Majesty's submarines throughout the six years of emergency, against a background of heavy losses are difficult for anyone to overrate. From this experience, he brought to his constituency a shrewd understanding of ordinary people which was liked and respected. It is a matter of much regret to his many friends that, as the result of his long service to his country, in recent months he has suffered a severe toll on his health. I am sure that all hon. Members who knew him well will want to wish him a speedy recovery. I count myself very fortunate to represent my constituency. It has an immense variety of occupations. It is the centre of the world's best cheese for a start. It has a huge dairy farming industry. Within it is carried on some of the most sophisticated electronic research in the country. It has one of the largest and most progressive footwear organisations in the world. It can boast a countryside and ancient buildings whose charm and beauty can match those anywhere else in the country. They give enormous pleasure to people coming from all parts of the kingdom and the world. We are also, I fear, a constituency with atrocious and inadequate highways. Our road system in some places has been little improved, particularly in width, since the Highways Acts of the last century. This gives rise to the greatest anguish and concern. Not only do we have the holiday exodus to Devon and Cornwall in the summer, going from east to west on our roads; we also have a large amount   of heavy transport travelling north to south, from South Wales and Bristol towards Southampton. In addition to this, the same roads are carrying a constant stream of heavy stone lorries from our quarries, which provide the greater part of the stone for building the principal roads and motorways for the rest of England. In the matter of roads, my constituency has a ""full house"". We are the producer, the middleman and the consumer, and we are fast becoming the consumed. Our elderly people in the villages are finding conditions difficult and serious. Our children are a constant source of anxiety to their parents when walking to school. We have a serious accident record, and our ancient buildings are badly shaken by the constant convoys of massive stone lorries. We need by-passes and relief roads in every town and major improvements in every village. I am left in no doubt about this whenever I go to any part of my constituency. Anything which can be done to speed up the procedural delays in getting better roads and safer roads will be greedily welcomed in our part of the world. For the first time, we have two competent Ministers from the West Country who really know what the West Country has suffered all these years from inadequate roads. For one short moment, we had the Minister in charge of all the transport services, my right hon. Friend and neighbour the Member for Yeovil (Mr. Peyton), but that was, unfortunately, too good to last, and he was taken away from us pretty quickly. But, satisfactory though the streamlining of procedure may be, the House should ensure that the safeguards are there for the individual rights and freedoms. I was glad to hear that a code is being produced, what my hon. Friend called ""a code of amicable agreement"", so that these rights may be safeguarded. A vast amount of resistance builds up against road planning procedure very quickly if it is ineptly and inadequately carried out by the highway authority. However good the Bill may be, the carrying-out of these procedures is vitally important as well. I therefore welcome what the Minister has said about public  meetings before any decision is reached on these routes, and I should have liked it written into the Bill. Of course, planning blight on an individual's house does not occur always or only when a specific route has been agreed and announced. The hon. Member for Sheffield, Park (Mr. Mulley) said that, even if a surveyor is seen walking about, that is cause for rumour. If he goes for a Sunday afternoon's stroll with his dog, he may cast planning blight on some unfortunate person's home. This must be carefully considered. This can occur, too, when the highway authority allegedly commits itself to a route without formal plans: no formal objections can be raised and the individual has no means of redress I am glad to see that the Bill attempts to put right that anomaly, which has caused great anxiety in my constituency. Over 50 houses were blighted in this way and nothing could be done about it. Another matter is the lack of certainty about future routes dragging on for years. This, again, causes much blight and difficulty to ordinary people. If speedier procedures are to work, and work better, the compensation must be generous and fair and the rules must eliminate unnecessary anxiety and hardship to a greater degree than in the past. In this way, we shall take the sting out of the anti-improvement lobby which immediately builds up when a proposal is made for road improvements. One improvement which I should like to see for my constituency is in the way in which the Ministry calculates the economic rate of return on a proposed by-pass or route before it will give its blessing to that route. At present these calculations do not differentiate between the size of lorries. Whether a lorry is a three-tonner, 28-tonner or 32-tonner, they are all called ""three-passenger car units"". It would make an enormous difference in our applications to get improvements made if those calculations could be done differently, so that the 28-ton stone lorries which pour through our constituency could be given the weighting they deserve. I suggest, too, that the hard-pressed computer ""drivers"" in the Ministry drop their keyboards and consider other criteria on which our towns could qualify for by-passes—particularly on amenity   grounds. This is badly needed to preserve the fabric of the ancient buildings in my constituency, about which I wish the Bill said more. I would like highway authorities to be obliged to place at the head of their priorities for minor improvements the need to put footways along principal roads, where schoolchildren have to walk to go to primary or infants' schools. The House will understand the anger and anguish of mothers whose children have to walk along these roads without a proper footway and who have to compete in a narrow 22-ft. road with 28-ton stone lorries making a terrifying noise. Although they may not be going very fast, they are very frightening objects. Proper footways for school children should be a top priority. Unfortunately, many of these projects are at present not accomplished until there has been a tragedy. I have always felt that it was wrong that a tragedy was needed before necessary road improvements could be made. This is too frequently the case and it represents an inhuman and desk-bound attitude. I hope that the Minister will impress on local highway authorities the need to prevent casualties rather than wait for them to happen before making improvements. Despite the high demand that exists for every form of social service, I am glad that the task of improving our roads is continuing to maintain a good position in the priority programme. It is extremely important that this programme has the priority it needs. I welcome the Bill and hope that it may be further improved to include some of the points I have mentioned.
