gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome this early opportunity to address the House on the occasion of my maiden speech. On 26 June I was fortunate enough to be the victor of a by-election in Glasgow, Central, and victory is always sweet. But for me the victory was tinged with a touch of sadness. I am conscious that I am standing in the House this afternoon only because of a tragic accident to Tom   McMillan, my predecessor. Tom was not only a political colleague of mine; he was a personal friend. He was also a personal friend of my family. He represented Glasgow, Central for 13 years. During that time he built up a tremendous reputation as a fighter for his constituents. He made the point to me that his job was to serve those who elected him. That was not a platitude. Tom, although he did not keep good health, insisted on holding at least one surgery every week Those hon. Members who have to travel to their constituencies will realise how strength-sapping that must have been. I have no doubt that it was because of Tom McMillan's past work that my success at the polls evolved. If I can serve the people of Glasgow, Central as well as he did, I shall be satisfied. My constituency is in the very heart of Glasgow, and the great industrial city which Glasgow was built up to be started there. Within my boundaries lie the city chambers, which is where the Lord Provost, the leading citizen of Glasgow, takes his seat to run council meetings. They are the administrative centre of the district council. Glasgow cathedral, which is more than 800 years old, also lies within my boundaries. Across the road is the Provans Lordship, a historic building which is also the oldest house in Glasgow. We have the Merchants House and Trade House, along with the stock exchange, and headquarter organisations in shipping, banking, insurance and retailing. My constituency is also an important seat of learning. Strathclyde university is located within it which, along with Glasgow university, in one of my neighbouring constituencies, has places for more than 12,000 multinational students. With a further 12,000 places spread over a dozen specialised colleges in the area covering technologies such as food, science, printing and, not least, the arts, that totals 24,000 places for multinational students, which is proportionately the Commonwealth's heaviest concentration. In the eighteenth century the tobacco barons brought the city to the boil with their American trade, and the Victorian entrepreneurs emblazoned its shipbuilding and engineering fame. My consti-  tuency was the seedbed of the industrial revolution in Scotland, yet there are now parts of it which have been officially declared areas of extreme multiple deprivation. Although we have some of the most historic buildings in the land and some of the best examples of Victorian architecture, we also have some of the worst unemployment figures anywhere. We suffer from the curse that is unemployment. Where once stood factories supplying jobs and life to the area, there is now savage unemployment and emptiness. When Glasgow was built up, it was built as a city of contrast. There were grand mansion-type houses for the wealthy, and small, single-end flats with outside toilets for the lower classes. Those single-ends were vermin-ridden, and because of the unsanitary and overcrowded conditions which prevailed, tuberculosis and other diseases were rife. Over the years the local authorities have striven to rid us of that squalor, but in Glasgow, Central, and in part of the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Glasgow, Shettleston (Mr. Marshall), a special initiative was required. The previous Labour Government, in recognition of that fact, set up the Glasgow eastern area renewal project, into which £160 million was to be channelled in an effort to build factories for employment and decent houses of a type in which people wished to live. GEAR, as it is known, obviously had its teething problems, but it brought hope to that part of Glasgow, an area weakened by loss of jobs and people. Yet even it is under attack by the Government's policies. It has suffered under cutbacks in public expenditure. The jobs that we hoped that project would provide will not be forthcoming, and may never be forthcoming. At the same time, factories are closing down all around the constituency. A few weeks ago there were 4,000 job losses at Singers and 1,400 jobs lost at Talbot, Linwood. The position is so bad that even Robin Duthie, the Conservative-appointed chairman of the SDA—who is not exactly a card-carrying member of the Labour Party—was forced to attack the Government. The effects of high interest rates and the Government's policy of non-intervention in industry have fanned the   flames of unemployment in Glasgow and, indeed, throughout the whole of Great Britain. It is a fact worth remembering that since the Government came to power, 300 jobs have been lost every day, seven days a week. We have heard the Government's response today. They suggest that it is the unemployed's fault for being unemployed, and that if working people did not ask for more wages firms would not close down. But in the world outside, reality is different. With inflation touching 22 per cent., it takes almost one-quarter more in the weekly wage packet just to stand still. That has happened after only one year of Tory rule. I represent what used to be a busy, crowded and thriving community. It, like industry, has declined over the years. In fact, Glasgow, Central is now the smallest constituency in Britain. Nowhere could be more appropriate to see the devastation of unemployment than my area, and if any Government Minister wishes I shall personally give him a conducted tour so that he may see for himself. Small as it is, it still has the heart of a lion, and it roared a warning to the Government on 26 June. It told the Tories ""Enough is enough"". We need more initiatives, not fewer. We need more money for projects such as GEAR. We need more money for the Manpower Services Commission. The reality is that unless the Government change their course, as my right hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, East (Mr. Healey) said, what happened in Bristol just a few weeks ago will be timid in comparison with the unleashed fury of the unemployed frustrated masses of Britain. To Conservative Members representing marginal seats, I say that if anyone should be creating a fuss in this House it should be they, because they are the cannon fodder of the Government. The unemployment statistics which have been glossed over today will be a reality for many of them. When the day of the election comes and we hear the usual waxing from the Tory Front Bench, when Conservative Members in marginal seats are wiped out there will be no point in running to the Labour Party, because our ranks will be so swollen that we will have no vacancies.
