gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is customary for hon. Members addressing the House for the first time to seek its indulgence. I believe that I have more reason than most hon. Members to seek that indulgence because many hon. Members present, including the right hon. Member for Dartford (Mr.   Irving), have sought my advice on procedural matters in the past when I was an Officer of this House, and many were unwise enough to take it. Their emotions must be comparable with those of Horatio on the battlements of Elsinore: What, has this thing appear'd again tonight? It is also usual for hon. Members to refer at length to their constituencies. I have noted that if the constituency is a major industrial city, its importance is such that if by some cataclysm it were destroyed, the hopes, wealth and future of this nation would be irretrievably destroyed. If it is a county constituency, it is the most beautiful constituency in the kingdom. If it is a seaside constituency, it is the only place for sensible people to have their holidays. I often found it difficult, as an Officer of the House, to equate these romanticised versions with the grim realities. This scepticism stemmed from many years ago when I discovered an hon. Member in the research section of the Library looking up his constituency. This was a rather rare visit for him, because his attitude to his constituency was similar to that of the late Colonel Brabazon who, when posted to a regiment of which he disapproved, remarked: ""I can never remember their name, but they wear green facings and you get at 'em from Waterloo."" The city and the university of Cambridge require no introduction or description, as their achievements and distinctions are already familiar to the House. It is a considerable tribute to the tolerance of the electors of Cambridge that they have forgiven me my youthful indiscretion of being educated elsewhere. Until three months ago, I might have been tempted to describe the University of Cambridge as being second to one. It is amazing how educative politics are. I have seriously reconsidered my position on this issue and I have developed a sympathetic pity for my hon. Friend the Member for Oxford (Mr. Luard). Although he sits on the Labour Benches he has always been, and I hope he will always be, my hon. Friend. I am particularly honoured to have the opportunity to represent Cambridge because I follow an hon. Member who was  deeply esteemed in my constituency and in this House, David Lane. He has taken on one of the most difficult and certainly one of the most thankless posts in the public service. In Cambridge we are proud of him and grateful to him, and we wish him all success in his difficult task. I am sure that many hon. Members from both sides of the House will fully share this view. There will be other occasions on which I shall have the opportunity of drawing to the attention of the House certain matters of particular relevance to my constituents. There is a certain aspect of the Chancellor's proposals last week which has a considerable relevance to a city in which private enterprise, small business men and the self-employed are crucial to its character and prosperity. I find it difficult to detect anything in the right hon. Gentleman's proposals which has any direct relevance to the problems of these crucial sectors of the national economy. Not only do these people feel that they are the victims of benign neglect, but they feel that Whitehall does not understand their problems or their potential contribution to the resolution of the problems which face us all. They have raised with me certain questions which I want to raise with the Minister, constructively and seriously. Cambridge is fortunate in that it does not suffer yet from the severe unemployment that afflicts other parts of the nation. But we are feeling the icy chill of the collapse of the pound, of appallingly high interest rates, a rampaging inflation, of high taxation and the abrupt decline in national confidence. My constituents do not understand why the Government continue to pour public money into the temporary employment scheme, which can only be a short-term measure, whereas, in contrast, a programme of low-interest loans to small firms would not only solve the serious cash-flow problems of such businesses, but create long-term employment. Meanwhile, many smaller businesses in my constituency are being forced to the edge of bankruptcy, not least the construction industry which was referred to by the hon. Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Heffer) and others. Certainly these companies cannot consider further employment in the present situation. Even the   invaluable Cambridge police cadet programme, which provided employment and the prospect of a good career, has had to be abandoned. My constituents are genuinely baffled by these strategies and results. I should like to put to the Minister certain positive and constructive proposals to which I hope he will listen and which I hope he will take seriously. First, I suggest that we should now seriously reexamine the practical possibilities of a proposal which is not new and which has often been mentioned by my hon. Friends, notably my hon. Friend the Member for Basingstoke (Mr. Mitchell), namely, the establishment of a small business commission which could have a major part in the negotiations in which at present the CBI, the TUC and the Government are the sole participants. Obviously, this must be a voluntary organisation, but its establishment requires positive Government support and encouragement which I hope will be forthcoming. Secondly, I recommend the reintroduction of and much greater publicity for the former ECGD small exporters' policy and the introduction of practical measures to provide vital pre-delivery finance for exporters. If the Government are serious about increased exports from the private sector—and I am convinced that they are—they must recognise that there must be greater positive encouragement and assistance. This also requires a much more generous Government attitude towards the threshold for grants and subsidies. Many small businesses do not qualify for these and I suggest that it is in the national interest that they should. I should also like to stress to the Minister the urgent need for the simplification of VAT and a reduction in form-filling, which particularly affect and afflict small businesses. The VAT threshold for the self-employed should be increased from £5,000 to at least £9,000 a year. Few of these suggestions involve an increase in Government expenditure. What they involve and require is a redeployment of existing expenditure to help the private sector. They could lead in the long run to a reduction of public expenditure by the increase of wealth in the private sector. The private sector is asking for encouragement and incentive. All that my constituents ask for is to be given a fair chance and some positive encouragement. The right hon. Gentleman and all right hon. and hon. Members must realise that the combination of high taxation, increased employers' insurance contribution, inflation, penal interest rates and restrictive legislation is causing havoc in the private sector, and that these items constitute a recipe for national disaster. We are, after all, talking about 6 million jobs. What the people are asking for from the Government—whether this Government or any other—is confidence and incentive, not just financial incentive, although that is important, but the kind of incentive that involves living in a country where success, hard work, achievement and contributions are admired and rewarded. I put this point to the House in deep seriousness. I look back over a period of considerably more than a decade in which we have been deluged with plans, commissions, forecasts, strategies, Budgets, and legislation in which we have been exhorted again and again in fine speeches to work harder, save more, invest more; but we have so seldom been given any real incentive to do so. We come to the point of wondering whether any politician is genuinely interested in the future of private enterprise, the individual and the self-employed. There used to be a time when such people were regarded with admiration in our society and were given every possible encouragement. I should like us to get back to that situation. The resentment of the small business man, the individualist and the self-employed is not at all confined to any Government or any party. Over the years, all too many promises have been given and all too few have been fulfilled. When it comes to the crunch, the big battalions always carry the day, to the tragic detriment of what is our greatest national asset—the desire of individuals to chart their own course, to earn a good livelihood through their own endeavours and to hand on to their children solid achievements which may give them a better start than their parents had. I sometimes wonder whether hon. Members and Government officials ever think about the baleful effects of death duties and the capital transfer tax on   this absolutely honourable and very human ambition. I also sometimes wonder whether our economic geniuses ever trouble to consider what is the inevitable fate of any society that treats capital as income. If I emphasise these points it is not simply because they are of constituency interest. It is because I passionately believe that such individuals created the wealth of this nation, that they have saved it twice in this century, and that, given a fair chance, they could save it again. The right hon. Member for Newham, North-East (Mr. Prentice) referred to the fact that I am a historian. As a historian, I am frequently oppressed by the fact that the people who really made this nation, who really are this nation, are the sort of people who never appear in history books and yet they provide the contribution, courage, sacrifice and hard work which made this nation and which can save it in future. I should like to refer briefly to another aspect of the Chancellor's proposals which was also touched on by the right hon. Member—the proposed reduction in overseas aid. I emphasise that I consider that we tend to speak too much about overseas aid in purely financial terms. I always thought that the Pearson target of 1 per cent. of gross national product was not only unattainable but a dangerous concept. We have seen in this country and elsewhere the folly of claiming that great and profound social problems can be met and resolved by the mere spending of money. Similarly, it is our bitter experience that, after the expenditure of truly vast sums by the developed countries over the last 30 years to the developing countries, the general condition of the latter is little better and in most cases considerably worse than 20 years ago. The reasons are many. One of them lies in the Western attitude to aid. Giving money to developing countries may make the donor feel good and salve some consciences, but it is too easy, and it is also very inefficient. Money is vital, but I emphasise from my experience, particularly in the United Nations, that it is only one part of a deeply complex issue. What is the situation we confront? We inhabit a planet in which more than two-thirds of the population live in conditions of deep and tragic poverty while a minority live in relative affluence. It is a planet in which 10,000 die every day from malnutrition or its effects. It is a planet in which more than 200 million children suffer from serious dietary insufficiency. It is a planet of whose scientific and technological resources over 98 per cent. are in the developed countries. It is a planet of appalling differences in incomes, in health, in education, in life expectancy, and in hope. One could go on with statistics, and, indeed, to anyone of imagination and compassion those statistics are numbing and appalling. Those who have had experience of trying to do something practical with the reality can only tell the House that the reality is infinitely more terrible than even the imagination can conjure up. More than a century ago, Disraeli, referring to this country, wrote of the two nations—the rich and the poor—and warned of the perils to our society if the situation were allowed to continue. Today we have two worlds. To adapt Lincoln's famous phrase, a planet divided against itself cannot endure. Apart from the ever-present and fearful shadow of nuclear disaster, I regard this ever-widening gulf between the affluent few and the impoverished many as the most profound threat to all our futures. One can put the matter at its lowest and bluntest—that beggars make bad customers—or be reminded of Keynes's bitter dictum that there is no guarantee that starving people will die quietly. One can talk of the matter purely in cold-blooded and nationalistic terms—that it is in our national interest to attempt to reduce this terrible chasm between the minority and the majority. Perhaps that is the way to look at the situation. Certainly I see no way in which we can achieve reasonable political stability on this planet so long as there are these glaring economic inequities between the few and the many—and in the establishment of that political stability no nation has a greater interest and concern than we have. I put it at that level. I could go on perhaps to talk about the enormous value to this nation of exports to the Third World and about the enormous potential of that market. That argument is valid and realistic to many people, but it avoids something rather more profound to which the Chancellor referred. Few people in this country or in the West as a whole have any realisation of the awesome scale of the problems we confront. Let us take the example of food. The world will have to double its production of food over the next 25 years if we are to maintain the present rather abysmal standards that we have. That fact is in itself an awesome challenge. Furthermore, that food can only be produced in the developing countries, and in the main in areas which do not now produce food. But the growing of food is the easiest part. We are talking about large areas of the world which do not have the fundamental logistics that we in the West take for granted—reasonable communications, roads, transport, housing, health facilities, education, marketing arrangements, capital and basic technology. None of these things exists in such areas. One has to start absolutely from scratch. Thus, the food question is only one part, although a vital part, of an infinitely larger and more complex issue. I remember vividly when I was serving at the United Nations trying to deal with the situation in the Sudano-Sahelian area of West Africa—an area almost the size of North America, with no communications, no roads, no airstrips. To my knowledge, 100,000 people perished. We were unable, although we had the food and the equipment, to do anything about it, because we were dealing with an area which was, to all intents and purposes, empty and a desert. I do not know anyone who has been and is involved in the development effort who is not deeply frightened by its scale and who is not convinced that we are approaching an appalling human catastrophe, of which the Sudano-Sahelian disaster was only a foretaste. The scale is indeed so awesome that it makes many people feel utterly helpless and sit back as though waiting for the advent of the Black Death. I understand but do not share such attitudes, and I do not think that this  House should share them. For the key to meeting this problem is political will. When that can be created, as it was in the case of the elimination of smallpox over the last decade—itself an astonishing and remarkable example of human endeavour—there is almost literally nothing we cannot do if Governments are determined to do it. The recent establishment of the World Food Council and the International Fund for Agricultural Development illustrates what can be done when the political will is there. The record of this nation over the last 20 years in development matters demonstrates a remarkable contrast between individual and governmental concern. We have voluntary organisations in Britain which have done more to create respect and gratitude for this nation than any Government have. As I know from personal experience, the enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication of the British non-governmental volunteer organisations have made a most profound impression throughout the world and have won us a large number of new friends. In marked contrast, successive British Governments have been depressingly bereft of ideas, initiatives, or indeed any serious indication of comprehension of the extent and importance of the problem. I am glad to make an exception in the case of the commodity initiative last year. It was the creation of Sir Donald Maitland and was taken up, to their credit, by the present Government, particularly the right hon. Member for Huyton (Sir H. Wilson) when he was Prime Minister. That began a process of debate, dialogue and negotiation which was of enormous benefit. We have obviously not yet reached a solution to this enormously complex question, but it was a very good example of a proposal which was taken up and carried forward and which could have enormous benefits for this country, the Commonwealth and all the nations involved. The Lomé Agreement was another excellent example. But when we look through the records we find that such examples of initiatives and ideas from the Government have been depressingly few. I very much agree with what the right hon. Member for Newham, North-East said. For a long time in the post-war period we have been seeking a rôle in international affairs. I am not arguing   that it is to be found in development matters. I believe that with a stronger economy and stronger defence we shall be in a better position to have influence in the affairs of the world. But the House and the nation under estimate the respect and regard with which this country is treated abroad, and the hunger which many people have for the ideas, idealism and experience which we can provide and which I have found in individuals working in the United Nations and voluntary organisations. I know of their extraordinary contribution and the respect and trust they have gained not only for themselves but for this nation. I repeat that giving away money is not in itself the answer. It has tended to create a kind of national backlash here and in the United States against the whole concept of overseas aid. I hope that the Chancellor's cuts, which I regret, may at least give us the opportunity to begin again a serious dialogue and debate about the whole issue of where we are going and what we are trying to do in development matters. I am not suggesting another dreary and interminable Royal Commission, but I am suggesting a debate in which all the political parties, the voluntary organisations and industry are involved. Here is a clear case for national interests right across the board being consulted and considered. I hope above all that this may be an area that we keep out of party politics, one in which we can provide continuity, whatever the vicissitudes affecting the House and the country. I hope that we may play a full, honourable and practical part in meeting this human challenge. Before specific cuts are made in the programme there should be consultations with the Opposition parties, the voluntary organisations and industry, so that we may together do all that we can to minimise any ill-effects that the cuts may have. I think particularly of the most seriously affected countries, and, most of all, those in the Commonwealth. I remember vividly Mr. Speaker Morrison once remarking that the most ominous words in the English language were ""In conclusion, Mr. Speaker."" I shall say finally just this, that in thanking the House for its kindness in listening to me I should like to convey to you,  Mr. Deputy Speaker, and the House my sense of pride and happiness at being once again a servant of the House.
