gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This being the first time that I have had the pleasure of addressing the House, I would ask for the indulgence which is usually given with such courtesy to a Member who is making his maiden speech, even on a controversial Bill. I may need more of the indulgence of the House than is usually given, because although I shall endeavour to steer clear of party politics and be unprovocative I may have to touch on some controversial issues. I did not intend to follow the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. de Freitas) in what he said, but I should like to comment on his remarks that no member of the Cabinet had ever served on a local authority and because of that they know nothing about the problem of housing. I feel that I must correct the hon. Gentleman and support my right hon. Friend the Minister of Housing and Local Government. The hon. Member for Lincoln said the Minister was wrong when he argued that the amount of money he was providing in additional subsidies covered the additional cost consequent upon the increased interest charges for loans from the Public Works Loan Board. I have been a member of a local authority, both county and borough, and I have checked those figures most carefully. Let me assure the hon. Member that he is entirely wrong and the Minister completely right. It may be that the hon. Member for Lincoln, as explained by the Minister, was thinking of some houses in his area where the charge is greater, but overall throughout the whole country the position is as the Minister himself said, and one figure does, in fact, balance the other. My one excuse for speaking today is that as long as five years ago I played a minor point in focusing public attention on the question of selling houses to the   sitting tenants. I should like first of all to refer to the only objections I have heard about the scheme apart from those uttered on the other side of the House today. One is a letter received by borough councils and housing authorities from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ebbw Vale (Mr. Bevan) when he was Minister of Health. He was replying to a request in 1947 from local authorities for permission to sell houses. A large number of local authorities in this country had asked the right hon. Gentleman for permission, and the officers of his Department, directed presumably by the right hon. Gentleman, replied in this strain on 9th October, 1947: I am directed by the Minister to refer to your letter and to state that in view of the importance of ensuring that as many houses as possible are available for letting, it is not in accordance with the present Government's policy that local authorities should dispose of their houses except in very special circumstances. The Council's proposals to sell cottages to such of the present tenants as may desire to purchase the houses in which they live is not regarded as exceptional, and the Minister is therefore unable to give the consent required. That point has been made this afternoon, but I suggest that the people who, in fact, desire to buy their own houses and are council tenants are not the people who are going to move out of those premises. Therefore, there will not be any vacancies to be filled from the housing list through people buying their own houses. As I said in 1947, that seems a very thin reason for denying the right to people who desire to buy their own houses, and which are at present owned by a council. The only other objection I have heard—and I have been involved nearly five years in the consideration of this matter—is that it would create slums. It is argued that if a council permitted tenants to buy their own houses there would be mixed ownership and it would lead to slums. The fact is that nothing is further from the truth. There is mixed ownership in most estates throughout the country, and incidentally it might be that when a man owns his house he will decorate it in such a way that it will put the council tenant next door to shame. I want to turn briefly to the question of the advantages of selling these houses to the tenants. The hon. Member for Lincoln said that the party opposite had  no objection to selling houses to the tenants except that it was untimely now. To be in possession of one's own house is one of the finest things for any man or family in this country. But there is another point. I doubt very much whether some Members of this House know that a council tenant can be given one week's notice to clear out and has no recourse to the courts. That power is rarely exercised but, in fact, a council tenant can be given that short notice, and council tenants know it can be done. The great benefit to the tenant in buying his own house would be that he would be gaining security of tenure. Furthermore, throughout the country, in the past five or six years, council rents have advanced from 2s. to 10s. a week. There is the fear in the minds of some of the less well off people in this country that the rents of council houses will be increased again as costs advance, but if tenants are allowed to buy their own houses they know that what they are paying out per week will be for their own house and that will be the end of the story. May I point out to the House the advantages of this scheme to the local authorities and to the State? There are 800,000 pre-war houses owned in this country by local authorities, and most of them are the object of subsidies paid by the local authority and by the State. If one of these houses were sold there would, in fact, be an end to Exchequer and local authority grants for that house. If we take the optimum figure as 800,000 houses, that would effect a £10 million saving in subsidies which the Minister could apply, if he were allowed by the Chancellor and the Treasury, to help to meet the additional housing subsidies he is going to give under the present Bill. Not only would there be savings in that way, but there would also be a substantial capital profit. From what the Minister has said today, he is not going to allow local authorities to profiteer but he is also not going to allow them to sell houses too cheaply. There is bound to be on the sale of any house a substantial capital profit, some of which could go to the State in repayment of the subsidy payments and some to the local authority. There would be a very great saving in the cost of rent collection, a very important matter these days when local authority wages and salaries are rising. The Minister mentioned that some local authorities use, in addition to the subsidies, money from the housing revenue account to reduce the rents on other houses. Where that is occurring there would be a substantial saving to the rates apart from the housing revenue account. There would also be a saving in overhead charges and a reduction in the supervisory staff for repairs and maintenance. There is nothing new in the principle of the Bill. The powers to sell council houses are contained in Clause 79 of the Housing Act, 1936, and in previous Acts of Parliament. There is nothing new in the practice of selling council houses. Before the war Southport, Wolverhampton, Cambridge, Birmingham and many other local authorities were selling houses. There is nothing new about the working classes owning their own houses. Of the four million houses built between the wars approximately three million were built by private enterprise, mostly for sale, and the average rateable value of the three million was 10s a week. There is nothing new in local authorities advancing money to those wishing to purchase houses from private builders. The Small Dwellings Acquisition Act, 1890, allowed local authorities to loan money up to the value of a £1,200 house. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ebbw Vale, in his Building Materials and Housing Act, 1945, increased the figures to £1,500, and in the Housing Act, 1949, he increased the limit to £5,000. There is thus nothing new in local authorities lending money for housing. There is an interesting aspect of the raising of the limit to £5,000. I doubt very much whether many people in the lower income groups would pay £5,000 for a house. I wish to give the House a concrete instance of how this might work. It is an instance from a London borough relating to houses built under the 1919 and 1923 Acts. The houses were very expensive, being twice as dear as such houses were in the 30's. The average cost of the five and six-bedroomed houses was £1,159. The outstanding debt per house  is £754, that being the cost to the local authority. The average weekly rent is £1 0s. 5d. Should he so desire, it is possible for the Minister merely to say, ""You may sell it for £754."" That would mean that the rate subsidy paid up to the time it was stopped would be lost to the Exchequer. On the other hand, if the Minister said, ""You can sell for £1,200,"" under the rate of interest of the Public Works Loan Board today it would only be necessary for the tenant to repay over 30 years at the rate of £1 8s. 2d. a week. I have obtained these figures from the Town Hall and had them checked very thoroughly. With regard to capital profit, these days there is a great shortage of cash for all purposes, and the Government are trying to retrench and cut down expenditure. If the council were allowed to sell a house for £1,200 there would be a capital profit of £41 on the original cost and a capital profit of £446 on the net cost today. If the council were allowed to sell a five or six-bedroom house for £1,500 there would be on the net cost of the house a profit of £746, which could go either to the State or to the local authority. The conclusion one must reach about this is that when council houses are sold to sitting tenants the State makes a profit in some way or another, the local authority cuts its overheads and the tenant becomes an owner-occupier. What is new in the Bill is that my right hon. Friend is prepared to give his sanction to the proposal, whereas the right hon. Member for Ebbw Vale, when Minister of Health, refused to do so on every occasion. Furthermore, now that there is a shortage of houses Section 79 of the Housing Act, 1936, is to be amended so that councils shall not be allowed to profiteer because of scarcity nor be permitted to sell a house under its real value. If the principle is conceded—it has been done by the late Government and by the hon. Member for Lincoln today—that a person may be able to build his own house and it is admitted that it is lawful to purchase a house from a private individual for one's own occupation, surely it is merely a logical extension of those two fundamental freedoms to allow a   family renting a council house to purchase the freehold, particularly as that enables the annual expenditure of public money on subsidies to be reduced by anything up to £10 million a year. This is a permissive Bill. Many local authorities may not wish to implement it. Incidentally, at present many local authorities are not carrying out the wishes of my right hon. Friend about the granting of building licences to those who wish to erect their own houses now. The Division which I represent is one of the most recalcitrant in London in this respect. No doubt the Bill will be described as revolutionary by some and reactionary by others, but the action of my right hon. Friend in bringing the Bill before the House is statesmanlike, there being an overwhelming balance of advantage to the tenant, the local authority and the State, and the Bill should be supported by both sides of the House.
