gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first occasion upon which I have  been privileged to address this House, I trust that hon. and right hon. Members will again extend to me their consideration and sympathy. I had intended to delay addressing the House until I was more conversant with its moods and procedures, but this question of agricultural policy is of such vital importance to the North of Ireland in general, and my constituency in particular, that I felt that I would have to break my habitual silence. I shall try to abide by the rules attaching to maiden speeches by not being controversial, and I can assure hon. Members that I shall be very brief. The House may recollect that some time ago my constituents were not entirely united in their choice of a Member. I can assure hon. Members that they are now entirely unanimous in their appeals to me upon the question of the removal of the independent price guarantee. I do not represent the large farmer—the man who has some capital behind him; who may or may not farm good land, but whose farm is highly mechanised. I represent the very small farmer—the man who, generally speaking, is spread over the whole of the North of Ireland, and who depends for his very existence upon his smallholding. The position in Ireland is very different from that in the rest of Great Britain. We have no large estates; we have virtually no tenanted farms, and the owner-occupier, or the small farmer, is the backbone of that part of the British Isles. It may surprise hon. Members to know that the size of the average farm in Northern Ireland is only 38 acres, and on the west side those 38 acres are of very bad soil. I know that to my cost. It is sour, limeless, boulder clay, with not very good drainage, and an unfortunate predilection for growing rushes. The number of people engaged in that industry in the north of Ireland is really rather remarkable. There are 148,000 people directly concerned in farming. If my mathematics are correct, that represents almost exactly 10 per cent. of the whole population of that country—not 10 per cent. of the working population, but 10 per cent. of the whole population. It can be argued very freely that a type and size of farm of that kind is not economic. In a great many cases that is so, but even so it seems curious that   these farms are very productive. Farming in that country is a virile and extremely independent way of life, and I feel that it should be encouraged rather than discouraged. We have our linen and shipping industries, and I am very pleased to see that other industries are increasing. Nevertheless, farming is easily the largest single industry in the whole province. We are very grateful to my right hon. Friend for his assistance, resulting in the increase in the headage payment, but I know that he will appreciate that although this may have slightly softened the blow to the small farmer, it in no way takes the place of the individual guaranteed payments. The pity of it is that it was only in operation for three months, and was then withdrawn at a fortnight's notice. I do not want to weary the House with figures, but I have some rather significant ones which I should like to mention. I do not want to spread any further gloom, but I would point out that in 1954, Northern Ireland exported 202,000 fat cattle, of an approximate value of £12,900,000. In 1955, that figure fell very sharply to 106,000 head of cattle, of a value of £6½ million. As a small producer of fat cattle myself, I cannot say that I am very optimistic about 1956. The House must always realise that prices in the North of Ireland are usually between 15s. and £1 per cent. less than they are in the rest of Great Britain, which is a very good thing for the farmers here, but not very good for us. Although a periodical Price Review is necessary, I think that a yearly one is too frequent. If the period could be extended so that the farmer had more time to plan and to put his plan into operation, it would be better. My right hon. Friend might consider that possibility. I hope that he will be able to make a statement in the near future which will restore the confidence of the small farmer who, although he is not heard of so often as the big man, is really the backbone of the industry.
