gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I want to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my first contribution to the House, on the Gracious Speech. I ask for the forbearance of the House in so far as I am leav-  ing the subject of the foreign affairs debate. I am conscious of the fact that I am succeeding a very illustrious Member of the House, and that I have extremely high standards to emulate. Indeed, I was the agent to Ernest Popplewell for 16 years, and no one knows better than myself the high regard which he built up among his constituents in Newcastle, West during almost 21 years as Member for that constituency. I am sure that the House will greatly miss Ernest and his long experience, particularly in transport, and that it will join me in wishing him and Mrs. Popplewell a long, healthy and happy retirement. No one deserves it more. I congratulate the Government on their proposals to modernise Britain during this Session, and I wish to pay particular attention to policies concerning the regions and local government within the regions. I believe that the Government's regional policies are of the utmost importance and must be pursued in order to balance the economic position of the nation. The first priority in the North, in my opinion, must be to build up job opportunities. For too long the curse of the area has been its complete dependence on heavy industry, much of it well-nigh obsolete. In building up job opportunities we must seek to diversify the nature of industry. I have been impressed and delighted during the past 12 months to see new 21st century industries on the move into the northern region, and I look forward to the Regional Economic Planning Council having many more successes in this field. Indeed, as a new Member for a great industrial constituency, I feel that I have the right to make legitimate demands on the Government that they should speed up the process of encouraging tomorrow's industries into the northern region. The second priority, I believe, must be to build up the population of the North. I completely reject the South-East Study, which accepts the continuance of the drift to the South. I am pleased that the policies pursued so far by the Government have started to bite and that already we have almost succeeded in stopping the drift of our population from the North. I look forward to a reversal of the drift when people from this very much underprivileged southern region realise the advantages which the North holds. I deliberately refer to the ""under-privileged""   South-East, because I firmly believe that people who have to suffer the overcrowding which exists in this area are very much under-privileged. The northern region has very much to offer the nation. As surely as the prosperity of the nation was built on the skills of the industrial workers of the North following the Industrial Revolution, we are again in the position of being able greatly to enhance the national prospects with the contribution which we can offer in the years ahead—far more so than the rest of the country. I look forward to rapid progress in the building-up of city regions in the North, particularly in the Northallerton and Carlisle areas. May I offer one word of warning—that the build-up of the city region in the Carlisle area must not be at the expense of West Cumberland which still has sizeable problems to tackle. In my opinion, we ought to work towards an integrated transport system. It seems completely ludicrous to me that one day we should decide to build a new town at Washington and the following day we should decide to close the railway line to Newcastle where the majority of the new population will work. I hope that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport will take note of that remark. May I turn to the reference in the Gracious Speech to the reorganisation of Exchequer grants to local authorities. I have made a plea to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport and to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that they should consider increasing the grants from 75 per cent. to 95 per cent. on urban motorways. We in Newcastle are about to start on the eastern motorway and the first mile of the scheme will cost about £10 million. In this mile of motorway we shall receive a grant of 75 per cent. This first mile of motorway is a continuation of the A1. It seems neither reasonable nor fair that the ratepayers of Newcastle have to meet 25 per cent. of the cost of what is, after all, a major trunk road which ranks for 100 per cent. grant in rural areas. I hope that the Government will also give sympathetic consideration to the cost of central area redevelopment when considering the reorganisation of Exchequer grants. The Gracious Speech contains many proposals for modernisation. One of the  most urgent needs for modernisation lies in local government. Coming as I do from the grass roots, as a member of Newcastle City Council, I want to address my remarks to my right hon. Friend the Minister of Housing and Local Government and to commend him for his decision to appoint a Royal Commission which, I am certain, will result in revolutionary proposals for local government. I urge him to go ahead with his proposals for the creation of a greater Tyneside county borough. He will hear rumbles from reactionary forces in the area but I hope that he will not be put off, because there cannot be any reasonable argument against the proposals he has offered. Tyneside consists of a number of small communities, often based on old centres of settlement which began to coalesce in the 19th century. As a consequence, within the area, there are still a number of townships sharply conscious of their individuality. The pattern can best be illustrated by my own experience. I was born in Scotswood, a village on the outskirts of the parish of Benwell and separated by green fields from the parish of Benwell and the rest of the city. The people of Scotswood fiercely resisted being incorporated in the City of Newcastle, but now it is fair to say that probably the proudest inhabitants of the city are the Scotswood people. With further development, Scotswood became merged physically with the Newburn urban district area and I am a member not only for part of Newcastle but also for the urban district of Newburn. It is as well to point out that the Newburn Urban District Council is on record as having told my right hon. Friend the Minister of Housing and Local Government that it wants the status quo maintained but that if this is not possible, it wants to see his proposals implemented. I do not think that I am saying anything out of turn when I suggest that the council realises full well that it will not get the status quo. Tyneside is a series of small communities which are all too small to be the foundation of local government and are all part of the wider community where unity exists in a different way. The unity of Tyneside is constantly being developed as greater mobility becomes available to more and more people and   as a greater number of people are having, year by year, because of redevelopment, to move from the centre of the conurbation to the fringes. The pattern of the journey to work clearly demonstrates this and increases the great emphasis on the central area of Newcastle. It is fair to say that many thousands of my constituents travel about Tyneside to work and pleasure without any thought of local boundaries. Any such boundaries are generally quite indistinguishable and are blurred to those who travel to work. The people of Tyneside are regarded as Geordies the world over, not as people from Newcastle, Gateshead, South Shields or Tynemouth. ""Geordie"" is a regional term quite as specific as ""cockney"". The song ""Blaydon Races"" is almost regarded as a local national anthem. Is there any hon. Member who will confess his lack of culture by saying that he has not heard of ""Blaydon Races""? The identification of people on both sides of the river with Newcastle United Football Club, of considerable former fame, is undeniable. In view of all these things, it is clearly indicated that the people of Tyneside are already, by the way in which they work and play, part of one community and that this needs expression through one unit of local government. Vital and exciting changes are welcomed by most people, but there are changes in certain fields which are welcomed only by those not directly affected. Any changes that destroy important existing organisations and, what is more important, affect individuals, cannot easily be carried through. The changes proposed by my right hon. Friend for Tyneside and supported by Newcastle City Council and other councils in the area affect every member in every council chamber in the special review area. Many council members will lose their seats as a result of the proposed reorganisation—will lose them whatever form the reorganisation may take. Reorganisation is justified in my view only if, as a consequence, Tyneside can play a leading part in the development of a prosperous and modern region. If a major reorganisation fails to achieve this, there may as well be no reorganisation at all. If Tyneside, the northern region and the nation are to keep pace with the rest of the world  it is vital for a striving, living democracy to ensure that its own institutions move forward in the vanguard of this thought.
