gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome this opportunity to make my maiden speech on the introduction of a Bill of vital importance to the constituency for which I have been elected and which is now represented by a Labour Member for the first time in its history. Like some hon. Members opposite, my interests are not entirely in farming, however, and I cannot assume that my election was entirely due to the favour with which my constituents regard the Government's agriculture policy. Indeed, the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Monro) might be thought to have given me some assistance in my election by putting up considerable opposition to the Government's plans to diversify the economy in my constituency when he resisted the location in Caithness of the prototype fast reactor. Caithness and Sutherland is a large and very beautiful constituency. It is an area which very much needs diversification of its economy. It is a matter for note, perhaps, that there are more people now employed in Caithness in non-agricultural work than in farming. Nevertheless, it is with the interests of my constituents very much at heart that I welcome and support the Government's Bill to re-structure agriculture particularly in areas such as the one I represent. I pay tribute to my predecessor in the House, Mr. George Mackie, who, although he represented Caithness and Sutherland for a very short time, established himself as a well liked Member who worked hard in the interests of his constituents. Turning to the Bill itself, I recall that the right hon. Member for Grantham (Mr. Godber)—I regret that he is not here at the moment—said that it had met with very little enthusiasm and support during his election campaign. I cannot concur in this view of the public interest in the Bill. At my election meetings—I had more than 80, with audiences ranging from 7 to 700—there was the greatest enthusiasm for the Measure. This is very much what one would have expected. Before discussing what I regard as the most important aspect of the Bill for the under-developed rural economies of Britain, I refer in passing to some of the strictures which have been passed on the Selective Employment Tax outlined in the Budget. It has been said by the right hon. Member for Enfield, West (Mr. Iain Macleod) that this tax will have the effect of inhibiting and making more awkward the forward planning of farmers. In my view, the forward planning of farmers was much more seriously threatened by the right hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friends opposite in their proposals made during the election campaign for abolishing the price support system which we have known over the years. One feels that it is, perhaps, the intention of right hon. and hon. Members opposite to distract attention from their extremely threatening proposals by the present kerfuffle they are making over this tax. However, I share some of the doubts which have been expressed on both sides of the House about the merits of the proposal in the White Paper on the Selective Employment Tax to offset the cost   through the Price Review. I look for some clarification of this from the Chancellor of the Exchequer in due course. I hope that hon. Members opposite will not seek to fan the flames of the disquiet which farmers quite rightly now feel about this measure. The proposals to encourage hill farming outlined in the Bill must meet with wide acceptance, as indeed do the proposals concerned with the re-structuring of farming through the amalgamation of uneconomic units. However, as my hon. Friend the Member for Cardigan (Mr. Elystan Morgan) said, one cannot see the re-structuring of the farming industry as a cure-all. Indeed, in certain parts where there is no alternative type of employment, at the moment it is clearly out of the question. However, it is not put forward by the Minister as a cure-all. It is merely one weapon in a wide range of tools to improve the economic efficiency of this already efficient industry. It is put forward particularly to assist those who have alternative means of employment; and this, it may be, is not in the more backward rural areas such as those described by my hon. Friend the Member for Cardigan. I want to pay particular tribute to the imagination involved in the proposals to set up rural development boards. The hon. Member for Westmorland (Mr. Jopling) dismissed these proposals as creeping nationalisation. There were few farmers or crofters in Caithness and Sutherland who blenched when the Highlands and Islands Development Act was passed, with its much more sweeping proposals for the acquisition of land. Indeed, if I have any criticism to make of the powers proposed for the Rural Development Boards it is that they do not go far enough. The particular difference between the two proposals is that the Highlands and Islands Development Board can acquire land compulsorily and not merely with the consent of the majority of land-owners. This in the history of the Highlands was clearly a vital consideration, because for too long has that part of the world been the private preserve of too few, for interests not connected with the well-being of those who live there the year round. There is one aspect of the Government's proposals outlined in the Bill which I think is possibly an improvement on the Highlands and Islands Development Board scheme. This is the proposal that schemes of development for the diversification and co-ordination of the rural economies shall be drawn up in a plan which shall be available for public inspection and which shall be subject, if the Minister so decrees, to a public inquiry. This is a vital condition to ensure that no bureaucratic solution is imposed on an unwilling community. I have no doubt whatsoever that the Highlands and Islands Development Board and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland would not impose such solutions, but the fact that such safeguards exist will undoubtedly allay any fears that might exist as to the working of the rural development boards. I look forward to the Bill's speedy passage through the House and I conceive it as a Measure which will command the widest support, both in the House and in the rural communities at large.
