gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is rare for a maiden speech to be made by the Member for Harrogate. I hope that any pleasure that that rarity will bring will represent at least the satisfaction of knowing of the loyalty and consistency of the electorate of Harrogate to its Member of Parliament. My predecessor, the right honourable James Ramsden, entered Parliament for Harrogate in 1954. I am privileged to follow a man who was so well known and liked in the House. He rose to become the Minister of Defence for the Army in 1964, and, in opposition, served as Front Bench spokesman on public building and works from 1964 to 1965 and on defence matters from 1967. Great appreciation for his work in the constituency has on many occasions been expressed to me. Harrogate is a great and remarkable town, and my constituency is fortunate in taking in the beautiful countryside which surrounds it. We think that it is probably the most beautiful countryside in all England. The historic beauty spot of Knaresborough is close to Harrogate and was famous for its linen trade in the   middle of the last century. To the north is Boroughbridge, which straddles the A1 and is now, happily, bypassed. Then, further across, the boundary extends towards York. It is difficult to believe that only 100 years ago Harrogate was a collection of mediaeval villages. As far back as 1626 mineral waters were discovered in the area which had such health giving properties that people from all parts of the country were drawn to Harrogate to benefit from them. So it was that the population gradually increased in size. During the Regency period and later, in the middle of the last century, when the railway system was created, Harrogate grew to the extent that at the end of the century it had 60,000 inhabitants. This was due entirely to the popularity and importance of the spa town and the waters for which it is so famous. During the period of Harrogate's great growth, hotels were built on the grand and somewhat baroque Victorian style, but it is a tribute to the commissioners of that period that the countryside is still the dominant feature of the landscape. About 200 acres of pasture form the central landscape feature of the town. If the clock could be put back, many towns would be looking to Harrogate as an example of the way in which to protect the environment and preserve the old and interesting buildings that provide the character which we in Harrogate value so much. I welcome the clauses in the Bill which set up local lotteries. To provide revenue for educational, recreational and cultural activities and for improvement and conservation works is thoroughly good. In Harrogate we have always been aware of the importance of preservation and the care of the environment. The Bill goes a long way towards making possible the continuance of that work at a time when the cost of undertaking it has risen so much. Harrogate was successful in adapting itself from a spa town to the needs of the twentieth century. There was a change in the holiday pattern of the country and so it was that the borough council of the time chose to accent Harrogate towards establishing its image as a conference centre. In that it has been  remarkably successful. Between 200 and 300 conferences are held each year in Harrogate, together with many trade fairs of world recognition. Hotels have been adapted to provide every luxury and modern facility for the people who come on business, as holidaymakers or as foreign tourists. The importance of agriculture has always been evident in my constituency. We are particularly pleased that the great Yorkshire Show is held annually on the permanent showground in Harrogate. Farmers from all over the country and from further afield come each year for this important event. I hope that at some future date it will be possible for party conferences to be held and accommodated in Harrogate. The spirit of enterprise and success is the backbone of Harrogate, and that spirit stems, too, from the hoteliers in the area. Our shops, gardens and entertainments benefit in no uncertain way. The tourists find that it is a charming place to stay, and every conceivable amenity is to hand. It is this economic base of the hotel industry in Harrogate that is threatened by Part III of the Bill. I am pleased that I did not make my maiden speech earlier, because this part of the Bill is of particular significance to my constituency. There are more than 20 hotels that come into the category of having over 20 letting bedrooms. In all, there are 3,500 hotel bedrooms in the constituency. I know of one hotel that has faced increased rates by about 60 per cent. in the last two years. Hotels have had to cope with the costs of value added tax, high interest rates, general inflation, increased costs of providing heat and labour, and the higher costs of food. On top of all this, the provisions of the Fire Precautions Act have meant a great extra expense for the industry. I believe that this clause is ill-advised. It would establish a new rating system that would single out one section of a most valuable industry—the tourist industry—and would be a danger to smaller hotels, to which it could be extended at a later date if the legislation were carried through. I therefore urge my right hon. Friend the Member for Crosby (Mr. Page) to reconsider this provision. I ask him to delete it from the Bill. We have a   vitally important tourist industry. Not only my constituency but many other constituencies are totally dependent on the tourist and visitors industry. Indeed, those who use the hotels are faced, every time they go to a hotel, with high costs. If we are to maintain our competitiveness, and if we are to encourage people to spend their holidays in this country and not go abroad, it is essential for us to keep those costs as low as possible. Therefore, with all possible strength, I urge my right hon. Friend to remove the clause from the Bill.
