gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the House to grant me that indulgence which it normally accords to an hon. Member rising to speak for the first time. I wish to intervene in the debate because I have the honour to represent a constituency where the principal activity is farming, and because I have been engaged in farming for a good many years. I fully recognise that there are many hon. Members who are much better equipped than I to comment on the Bill, and for that reason I shall be brief. In the main, all concerned with agriculture will warmly welcome the objects of the Bill. The reservations which I make arise from the fact that a farm is not a factory and agriculture is not a uniform service, but an extremely diverse industry which runs to no coherent pattern. Indeed, in introducing the Bill the Minister pointed out how very variegated the industry is, how very different are the activities that come under the heading of farming. One of the strongest impressions which I received when I entered the House, and met those representing rural constituencies, was to realise how restricted was my own direct experience of farming and how widespread and varied an industry was agriculture, ranging from the small Highland croft to those large and highly mechanised modern units which are mostly found in the east of England. In that large range are included such experimental exceptions as very large holdings which look remarkably like the sort of ranch which one finds in America or Canada. The real need for this Bill arises from the increasing use of the machine in agriculture. The days when Punchseemed to have only one agricultural cartoon showing the parson being chased by a mad bull, are long past. Now, the terror of the countryside is not only the mad bull, but such sinister things as circular saws and fast moving, tractor-drawn machinery. Agriculture is not only the oldest of all industries, but at times one of the slowest moving; and I do not think that I shall be considered controversial if I say that at times the industry has been very conservative. However, that is not now the case. As a result of research, technology and the rapidly and ever-widening increase in the range of agricultural machinery which has become available to the farmer today, the picture has changed. It is that development, a development which will increase the dangers in farming, which has produced the very disturbing accident figures which we have heard today. Much is said by hon. Members from time to time about the drift from the land and my hon. Friend the Member for Devon, North (Mr. J. Lindsay) put forward some explanations. Various reasons are given and various comments made: wage rates, housing, amenities, the need for more village halls, more schools, more services, and so forth, the long hours which people employed on the land have to work at certain seasons. The main reason, other than those, is psychological, and it is that of the status of the agricultural worker in our society today. Our society is predominantly urban and there still persists the idea that the agricultural worker is an unskilled simpleton with an unsophisticated outlook and inferior in some ways to the worker in the towns, and perhaps, in particular, to the workers in heavy industry. Of course, the facts are completely otherwise. The agricultural worker today not only has that sanity of spirit which comes with working with nature and animals and dealing with crops, but is also very often a skilled mechanic and a master of a large number of very complicated techniques. The Bill gives him for the first time a charter of protection against danger in his work. The fact that it has perhaps been rather long in coming—after all, agriculture is an old industry and, as my   right hon. Friend said, the Gowers Committee reported early in 1949—is a tribute to the good relations existing in the industry, the good common sense and the closeness of master and man in agriculture today. In the main, this is an enabling Bill and much will depend on the spirit in which its regulations are made. It must always be remembered that the average farm in this country is small and is a family farm. I believe that the average holding is about 80 acres. In my constituency, the vast majority of holdings are well under that figure. They are family farms run by the farmer, his wife, children and, at the outside, one hired man. That is the background which must control the spirit in which such regulations are made. It is essential that the Government and other authorities concerned should realise that most farmers, and most parents, are adult, responsible people, who are the people who are best suited to decide how to avoid accidents. There is a tendency today for the central authority to act as a sort of universal governess in all spheres of activity, and that tendency will be resented in no place so much as in the countryside, where people are fundamentally independent-minded. The promulgation of unsuitable regulations for universal application, however well intended, could have the most ridiculous results upon individual holdings, which vary so much. I differ from the right hon. Member for Don Valley (Mr. T. Williams) about inspectors. I hope that those inspectors will be allowed to retain the right to grant exemptions. They will know the picture on the ground and local conditions, and I hope that they will be encouraged to use their power to grant exemptions as widely and liberally as practicable. I can foresee difficulties arising under Clause 2 in drafting suitable regulations concerning the lifting of heavy weights by young persons. It will clearly not be easy to establish a universal limit, because the safe limit varies according to the strength of the individual. When I was farming in Kent I well remember a very famous lady who was, technically, a young person, and whom everybody for miles around came to see perform the feat of lifting 2 cwt. bags at the same  time. For a time she was the most famous person in the area. Another point I want to make concerns Clause 6. I was very glad to hear the Minister say that he wants to preserve the spirit of keenness for farm work which exists among young children, and I hope that nothing will be done by regulation to scare young children away from farming. I hope that the Minister will reconsider this Clause, because as it stands it will enable regulations to be made which will preclude farmers' children—or any other children—from riding in a horse-drawn farm cart to and from the harvest, and upon other farming occasions. Children have enjoyed taking part in the harvest and other farming activities, and have been going to and fro in horse-drawn farm carts, for over a thousand years. They have derived great benefits from doing so, and it would be very sad if that were to be prevented. I agree, however, that there should be power to prohibit all joy-riding, and riding upon any vehicle or tractor-drawn implements which are dangerous, in that they are not adapted to take a passenger or a second operator. As the law now stands the age limit is 13 years, and I believe that may be too high. Every farmer knows that boys below that age may be perfectly capable of driving a tractor upon suitable level, hard ground, and doing a useful job. We must not adopt too much of a town mentality in approaching this problem. I know that my own children, and those of at least one other hon. Member, always drive the tractor at harvest time and perform a very useful job, which they enjoy. Parents are the right people to decide these matters. I suggest that, with the parents' consent, the age limit may be lowered, at any rate in respect of the children and families of farmers. Some hon. Members may find this suggestion startling, but in putting it forward I have behind me a wide body of opinion among the farming community in my area. I am well aware of the fact that accidents can happen as a result of children riding and sitting upon unsuitable machinery when it is in motion. My own small son, who is under 13 years of age, suffered a very severe injury in this way. It was entirely through the imprudence of a   tractor driver, who allowed him to ride upon a roller which was not adapted for it. That was a pure case of joy-riding— and I entirely agree that such things must be stopped. I am sure the whole farming community will support that proposition. I am glad the Bill provides that the regulations introduced under it must be ""reasonably practicable,"" and that there must be prior consultation with all the interests concerned. In view of the great lack of uniformity which exists in farming arrangements the House should realise the possible danger of absurd and ridiculous results coming from well-meaning regulations. When the Bill becomes law I hope that my right hon. Friend will go out of his way to ensure that, before any regulations are made under any heading, a really great effort will be made to operate a voluntary code of conduct as an experiment—a code which can be thrashed out with the representatives of all parties concerned, including agricultural workers, farmers, farm managers and landlords, all of whom are deeply affected by this excellent Bill.
