gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
There are two reasons why I have the honour of making my maiden speech. The first is the deserved elevation to the House of Lords of the former hon. Member for Manchester, Central, the right hon. Harold Wilson—[Interruption]—I apologise, I meant Harold Lever. It was a Freudian slip. My speech gives me the opportunity of paying tribute to his work, covering a span of 34 years, during which time he served with distinction. Secondly, I have been returned by the  same party and the same voters of Manchester, Central to carry on the fight on their behalf. It is indeed an honour to represent the area in which I was born and bred. I also have the honour and distinction of being the first SOGAT member ever to come to Parliament. I was advised to get acclimatised and to condition myself to the rarefied atmosphere of the House of Commons before I made my first speech. But I felt impelled to speak in this debate because my by-election was fought on the very issues that are dealt with in the motion—the effect of the Budget and the proposed cuts in public expenditure. The people of Manchester, Central, will be hit the hardest, because they are the people who need the facilities and who cannot afford any more cuts in their standard of living. These are the people of the inner city areas. My constituency has a high percentage of lower paid, unskilled workers, elderly, disabled and single parent families. Many who are strong in wind and limb go out to the suburbs and new towns and leave within the inner city areas people who are reliant upon the public services of housing, social services, education and so on. The Tory Government want to make a shift of emphasis from public to private spending of about £4,000 million, which will have a disastrous effect on my area. Certainly, the money will not go into the pockets of my constituents. I turn to the effects of the proposed cuts—I use the word ""proposed"" because we have not yet had the rate support grant announcement—on new house building in my constituency. About 2,000 brand new homes are in the pipeline. This is new, exciting, low rise housing featuring sheltered accommodation for the elderly, replacing socially obsolescent walk-up flats and providing homes for families on the deck access. In Manchester there is a policy to take 3,500 families off the deck access. But what chance will there be if these proposed cuts go through? Those people will be denied the opportunity of new homes and their hopes will be dashed. We have cleared more than 90,000 slum dwellings in Manchester. We have now adopted a policy of general improvement, but the proposed Tory policy will mean   that we must go for long consent on every dwelling. This is a complex procedure that will mean delay and decay. It will mean a return to the bulldozer if such policies are adhered to. Manchester is now suffering from hundreds of years of landlord neglect which we are trying to obliterate. Cuts in school meals will deprive the most needy children of their only substantial meal of the day. The effect on single parent families, coupled with cuts in nursery provision, will place a tremendous burden on people who can ill afford any extra strain. These cuts will mean not only physical strain but mental strain. Among the propositions that have been put forward is the suggestion that we should charge children for the use of books in public libraries. That is an abomination. A book can be a new exciting adventure for a child. It is scraping the barrel of meanness if they are denied that opportunity. As with children's meals, so with the elderly. Higher charges for meals in luncheon clubs will deny the elderly a substantial meal. The cutting of payments to supplement heating charges will mean a winter of despair for the elderly. My area will also suffer from the effects of the removal of intermediate area status. Large firms in my constituency, employers of a great deal of labour, will not get the grant to modernise or refurbish. Older type factories will become extremely vulnerable, and decisions to move will bring about inevitable redundancies. It will not be like the time when my father was out of work. Jobs lost today are lost for ever. The dangling of the redundancy carrot, whereby a worker can take home over £7,000, means that we are selling out on the youth of tomorrow, because those jobs will have gone for ever. Every section of society will be affected, except one—the rich. There was nothing in the Budget for the lower paid, and certainly not for the people whom I represent. There was even less in the sop of a tax handout, because the disparity of the tax awards means that an average worker takes home less than £3, whereas someone who makes no contribution to society or to the creation of its wealth can take home thousands of pounds. That leads me to the view that there is something radically wrong with society. I am a Mancunian born and bred. I have served on the city council, and I am proud of its record of achievements in housing, social services, education, direct works and so on. We in Manchester have always aimed at getting our priorities right in order to provide facilities for the needy. Above all, I am proud of the part that the Labour Party has played. Those achievements had to be worked and fought for over a long period, yet the present Right-wing, reactionary Government—the most reactionary in modern political history—aim to destroy those achievements. Manchester has a policy of fighting these cuts. I appeal to other local authorities to stand firm against the cuts. With a ground swell of public resentment against the Government, I believe that we shall see more U-turns. From canvassing in the shopping precincts and the market place, I know that the Government's policies are detested. They should have been enjoying a honeymoon period during the short time that they have been in office. But the voters of Manchester, Central have told the Tories what they think in no uncertain terms—a lost deposit.
