gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you for enabling me to make my maiden speech on a busy and important day, Mr. Speaker. I hope that the right hon. Member for Farnham (Mr. Macmillan) will forgive me if I do not take up the points he was making. My predecessor served the House and the constituency for 15 years and it is right that I should pay tribute to that. There is a tradition in the constituency of long serving Members of Parliament, and that is one I hope I shall continue. The constituency of Hemel Hempstead is 25 miles north of London and takes its name from the new town, but it includes the towns of Berkhampstead and Tring and several large villages. These have a tradition of independence that one quickly learns to respect, and it is right that this should be so. The new town is pleasant, well-planned and thriving, but it is one of the few remaining areas which yet retains a latter-day feudal baron in the shape of the Commission for the New Towns. The development corporation and, from 1962, the commission did a good job in developing Hemel Hempstead and expanding the town, especially in the provision of good quality housing and schools, but it has outstayed its welcome. It is a feudal body because it is unelected and undemocratic, and it is unresponsive to local opinion as expressed in local elections. Councils come and go but the commission seemingly goes on for ever. It surely cannot be right 27 years after development first began that the Commission for the New Towns should still sit as unelected landlord of 10,000 homes, about 3,000 more than are owned by the local authority. This is surely a travesty of local democracy, and my right hon. Friends with responsibilities for these matters should know that I have been sent here to help to untie these chains as speedily as possible, with housing and housing allocation handed over to the elected local council as a first step. It was, indeed, the intention of the New Towns Act 1946 that this should happen. The commision admit that it now owns no major areas of land which are available for housing, and therefore there can be no reasonable remaining arguments to justify the continued occupancy by the commission of an area of responsibility which rightly belongs to the elected local authority. There is much talk in this House of devolution to Cardiff and Edinburgh. My constituents in the new town are more concerned about devolution from the Commission for the New Towns to the Dacorum District Council because democracy begins on people's front doorsteps. I can give two instances of the lack of responsiveness by the commission. Earlier this year the Dacorum District Council decided to put all its tenancies into the joint names of husband and wife. When the commission was invited to do this it dithered and dallied and when pressed in effect said ""I will have to ask my dad in London"". Last year, behind the back of the locally-elected council, the commission, seemingly on instructions from London, put up for auction older homes which it said it no longer required. It did so without any consultation with the local authority and with apparently little thought for the 4,000 people in the local authority's waiting list. These are some of the reasons why the transfer of housing and housing allocation is so important, and why it should contain adequate safeguards for the existing staff of the commission. This transfer would let in democracy and would help to streamline administration. It might reduce costs by avoiding duplication between the commission and the council. There is one other local matter to which I must refer. We urgently need a new district hospital. It has been talked about for 10 years and it is now time the talking stopped and the bricks and mortar were laid. Our existing hospital is inadequate and out of date for a new town, especially in its facilities for elderly patients who are housed in so-called temporary buildings which were put up 30 years ago. No amount of care, concern or compassion from staff at all levels—and these are provided—can make up for the had conditions in which patients are ex-  pected to get well and staff to work. There is an urgency about this. I now turn to the debate. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of his statement called us to a war on waste. I applaud that, but many of my constituents are already engaged in a war on waste because they are in low-paid jobs, because they are widows, single parents, pensioners or disabled. They have long been experts in the war on waste and out of sheer necessity. It is we here and others like us who are the lucky ones because we have a standard of living which gives us some choice about what we would like to cut. Our concern must must be with those families who have no such choice. It is on how we collectively attend to these needs in a crisis that all of us deserve to be judged. For this reason I hope that my right hon. Friend will consider extending family allowances to the first child of single-parent families as a first step along this road by no later than next April. For this reason I hope that the Chancellor will find ways of putting urgently needed extra money into public transport as a means of reducing oil imports, because in large parts of my constituency the bus service is non-existent. The only way to get to work and to shop is by car. The disabled, too, need special help. I was this morning with a man who is a polio victim, living through a respirator and the help of a caring and devoted wife. His concern is that his small income, now regarded for tax purposes as unearned, although he cannot work, will be taxed under the Chancellor's proposals. Surely our crisis is not of a size which means that we must pick the pockets of the disabled. I hope, too, that thought will urgently be given to what this man, and others like him, will have to pay for the petrol that is needed for his wife to drive a specially converted van to take him out and about, and for the petrol he needs to fuel such things as his life-giving respirator. In a big crisis it is small issues of that kind that give a Government the hall mark of compassion. In all our debates this week on the big issues of investment and resources we must not overlook the most important resource of all—people. One of our problems   is that we allow an enormous waste of the human resource, by too seldom encouraging or enabling people at work to play a full part in what is going on. We must assert our belief that we shall overcome our crisis not mainly via institutions—and not for people—but with and through people.
