gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The constituency of Walsall, North, which I have the honour to represent, is divided by the M6 motorway, with the main town of Walsall lying to the east and the town of Willenhall to the west. But the constituency is divided by more than the physical presence of the motorway. It is divided by history and background and, most important of all, by the different economic bases on which the prosperity of the two halves of the constituency depend. Walsall has a tradition of connections with the leather trade. Walsall saddles, bridles and reins have been and are being exported all round the world. In the past 35 to 40 years, as the leather trade, particularly that part of it connected with the horse, has declined, the area has developed links with the metal processing industry. Today, parts are pressed, stamped, forged, founded and generally engineered into a wide variety of pieces and components of items in use in everyday life. Willenhall is rather different. It began as a wool town many years ago. Indeed, one of my ancestors was engaged in the wool trade in Willenhall over 400 years ago. But the wool trade declined and was replaced by lock manufacturing. Today most of the famous names of the British lock industry are and have their headquarters in Willenhall. Those hon. Members who have motor cars will probably find that their ignition keys and locks were made in Willenhall. When they go to their offices and open their filing cabinets, they will probably find that the filing cabinet locks were made in Willenhall. Indeed, many front door keys and locks were probably made there as well. The two parts of the constituency are quite different, but they are similar in that they depend on small businesses—that is, businesses employing perhaps fewer than 500 people—for their prosperity. This prevalence of small businesses has led to three particular traditions: first, a tradition of sturdy local  independence, of preferring to be left alone to get on with and do their own thing; secondly, a reputation for craftsmanship and quality of product; and, thirdly, a reputation for good sense and harmonious working relationships at all levels in the firms. In the past two years these small firms have faced particular difficulties. This afternoon I should like to take the opportunity to draw the attention of the Government to some of the difficulties which these firms have faced and are still facing. Before that, there is one other matter to which I must refer. I am sure that hon. Members would not wish me to dwell on the unhappy circumstances that led to the by-election in Walsall, North. However, I should like to thank the hon. Members for the neighbouring constituencies of Walsall, South (Mr. George) and Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Edge) for the work that they have undertaken during the past two and a half years to ensure that the interests of the people of Walsall, North have been safeguarded. I hope that it will not be considered out of turn if, as a very new Member, I say that the work which they undertook, unheralded and unsung, was in the best tradition of service to a constituency on which the House has rightly prided itself over many years. I turn now to the main point of my remarks. The damage that has been done to small businesses can be grouped under four main headings. The first is the effect of inflation. Inflation—the decreasing value of money—has meant that each firm has needed more money to finance an unchanged unit volume of trade. Inflation has also reduced the value of those tax concessions which are available to small companies. Above all, inflation and its after effects on general corporate liquidity has increased the cash flow squeeze on small firms because large customers are inclined to spin out the time that they take to pay their bills while larger suppliers, who provide the raw materials from which components are made, are inclined to demand payment promptly. As a result, small businesses have been forced to borrow yet more money. That, in turn, takes me to the second problem with which small businesses are faced—high interest rates. It is now   costing small firms between 16 per cent. and 20 per cent. to borrow money. That is a historically very high rate of interest. My hon. Friend the Member for Oswestry (Mr. Biffen) drew attention to the commensurate returns which are available and pointed out that the national return on capital employed in industry is now down to 4 per cent. One does not need to be a mathematical genius to know that if a business borrows money at 20 per cent. and invests it at 4 per cent., the end of the business is shortly in sight. The third area which concerns the small business is the prospect of the extension of municipal trading. People in the West Midlands are particularly conscious of that aspect in the light of legislative proposals which were discussed last year. Naturally, people in the Walsall area have been concerned about the reference in the Queen's Speech to removing unnecessary restrictions on the powers of the local authorities to undertake construction work by direct labour. Many Walsall firms and others throughout the country believe that local authorities are not properly equipped to undertake competitive construction work which should more properly be left to the private sector. Fourthly, there is the effect of the rising tide of paperwork on small businesses. This subject has been aired on many occasions in the House. I understand that 4,727 different questionnaires are now used by different Departments. That is symptomatic of the fact that the small business man is increasingly feeling that he is being swamped by a tide of requests for information and demands for returns of one kind or another. Against this background of higher risks and more complex demands, what do we see? We see a climate in which the owner-manager and workers have lower rewards. These lower rewards flow from two results. The first is the effect of a progressive taxation system in a time of inflation and, in particular, the fact that personal taxation rates have in any case been increased. The second is the effect of the capital transfer tax. It is only right and proper that people should wish to spend their lives building up businesses which they  can pass on to their sons and heirs. An enactment such as the capital transfer tax is always in danger of destroying the value of the incentive to people to push their businesses further forward and to create prosperity for themselves, thereby creating prosperity for the constituency within which they operate. The small business man feels that his requirements are not understood by the Government in Whitehall. I should like to give one brief example. In preparing my remarks for this afternoon I visited the Library of the House and looked up some of the recent publications on small businesses. I noticed a heading New Measures to Assist Small Business. I thought ""That is very interesting; I must investigate what is being done"". I drew a copy of the Press release put out by the Department of Trade and Industry referring to the new measures. It turned out to be a pilot small firms counselling service scheme. The Press release is made up of five or six pages. There is a definition of counselling, outline arrangements, eligibility, and several pages on how to apply for schemes. That is no doubt a worthy scheme, but it is not what the small business man is looking for. He wants room to grow and to get on with doing his job. He does not in most cases want more counselling, advice, and help of that kind. He wants to be left alone to get on with the job which he knows well and which he believes will contribute greatly to the country. I end, as I began, on a local note. The effects of the past two and a half years on small businesses in the West Midlands have been very serious. Perhaps the best way of judging the situation is to consider the numbers of resignations from the chambers of commerce in Walsall. The Walsall Chamber of Commerce has a membership of 1,200. In 1973 there were 14 resignations—about 1 per cent. In 1974 there were 15 resignations—again, about 1 per cent. In 1975 there were 44 resignations—about 4 per cent. In the first three-quarters of 1976 there have been 46 resignations. If that rate is continued through the final quarter of the year, effectively 6 per cent. of the members of the Walsall Chamber of Commerce will be going out of business every year. That is not special in the Walsall area. I thought it only fair to check on other areas. In the neighbouring town of Wolverhampton, where membership is 800, resignations normally run at about 20 per year, or 2½ per cent. In the 18 months between 1st January 1975 and 22nd June 1976 there were 85 resignations. That amounts to an average of 50 a year, or 6½ per cent. In the light of these serious statistics I hope that when considering their next set of economic proposals the Government will consider their effect on small businesses, because the prosperity of many constituencies and not only mine depends on them.
