gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a happy chance that the first words I should utter in this House should be in maintaining the very pleasant tradition of congratulating maiden speakers. I warmly congratulate the hon. Member for Leyton (Mr. Magee). I do so with a considerable fellow feeling. I can understand the difficulty that he found, as indeed I find, in approaching this subject without being too controversial. The hon. Member for Leyton had a distiguished career at Oxford, where he was President of the Union. He has had a distinguished career as a writer and broadcaster. He has started his new parliamentary career with equal distinction, and we look forward to hearing his further contributions. I was sorry that he was not able to include in his compendium of the London arts a reference to its numerous choral societies, but then, I have an interest as a member of one of them—the Royal Choral Society. I hasten to add, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that I have no intention of incurring your displeasure by bursting into song or making my speech in oratorio form. I am grateful for the opportunity to speak on this topic. I cannot claim to be expert on London, but I was born and brought up in outer London and I still live in the area of my constituency. My two previous attempts to enter this House have been in the inner part of East London. If, in the course of them, I was unsuccessful in depriving this House of the services of the hon. Member for Hackney, South and Shoreditch   (Mr. Brown) during that time I learned a great deal about and acquired an affection for that part of London. London is a city with problems common to all parts of the Metropolis. It is also a conglomeration of individual communities, each with its own features and difficulties. Such is the case in my constituency. I find myself, in the House, the victim of some confusion, as the constituency which I represent is different in character and composition from the one that had the same name before the redistribution of boundaries. The new Chislehurst constituency is one of four forming the London borough of Bromley, and the constituency consists of a section of the old Bromley constituency, represented for 10 years in this House by my hon. Friend the Member for Ravensbourne (Mr. Hunt), and part of the old Chislehurst constituency, which was represented with diligence and enthusiasm for 20 of the last 24 years by the right hon. Lady Dame Patricia Hornsby-Smith. Hon. Members in all parts of the House will share my pleasure at her name appearing in the Dissolution Honours List. I am happy to feel that she will continue to make her typically vigorous contributions to the nation's political life from another place, where we wish her well, My constituency is varied. About one-third of its homes ate local authority properties. A large proportion of those are on pre-war and post-war estates, built by the London County Council and the Greater London Council. Part of the constituency is fairly typical pre-war and post-war private development. While Chislehurst accepts with some reluctance that it is now part of London suburbia, it is, or was, an old Kentish village, now very much developed but still retaining a certain rural air, with the caves, for which it is well known, the Common, and the cricket ground. Like a number of hon. Members opposite, I shall be spending the coming weekend celebrating May Day, but we in Chislehurst celebrate May Day by crowning the May Queen on the Common. A large number of my constituents travel daily to central London. They are the directors, the managers, the clerks, the secretaries, who are the backbone of the capital's economic activity, particu-  larly those working in banking, insurance, shipping, merchanting and similar businesses in the City. Most of them, including myself, travel to town by train. Of the 150,000 people arriving daily at the South-East London main termini, about 9 per cent. travel either from the four stations within my constituency or from the four neighbouring stations. I emphasise this because public transport is the life-blood of South-East London. We rely heavily on a train service that is frequent, punctual and reasonably comfortable. Alas, too often it is none of these. Last winter we suffered from the ASLEF dispute—an action which meant that company chairmen were able to continue to travel to town in their chaufferdriven cars but created weeks of misery for ordinary working people who merely wanted to get to their jobs and do a day's work. This was apart from the incalculable damage which must have been done to individual businesses and, indeed, to the nation's economy. There must be more civilised ways of settling industrial disputes without resorting to methods such as this. Quite apart from these difficulties, the standard of the train service falls below that which the public needs and which I know that British Railways wish to give, but this is inevitable in view of the volume of traffic it has to carry and the staff problems. The pressure on the traffic might be eased in some way if we could get over the endless squabble between British Railways and London Transport and at last have the tube system extended at any rate part of the way into South-East London. I hope, too, that real consideration can be given to—and, perhaps we can even have action on—the ring rail and the ring bus proposals which have been put forward. A great deal of social and business traffic is inter-surburban, yet public transport facilities are very poor. The only effective way of getting from South-East London to South-West London, or from South-East London to the Essex suburbs, is to go into London and out again, thereby adding to the congestion in inner London. This problem is not confined to the train services. The road system in South-East London has little order about it. I   greatly regret that the Labour GLC has withdrawn its proposals for ringways, but I welcome the steering group's report, which merits study, although its proposals are far too detailed to go into in a general debate of this sort. However, we may ease the pressure of traffic on our transport facilities, but the staff shortage will remain—on the railways, on London Transport, and on public services. This includes local authorities and teachers. I believe that a revision of the London allowance is much overdue. I criticised the last Government and I criticise this one for their rather casual attitude to this matter. It is unfortunate that, the Government having referred the question of the London allowance to the Pay Board last autumn, we now have to sit back and wait until June before we have the board's report. There was a rather greater sense of urgency when we were dealing with the miners. I suspect that in the course of this Parliament I shall find myself crossing swords on several occasions with the Secretary of State for Education and Science who—dare I remind him?—was selected for his position. I suspect that I shall find myself differing from him. However, I support his comments about the action of the teachers this afternoon. It achieves very little to deprive children of an afternoon's schooling. It lowers the teachers' professional status for them to go on strike for the afternoon and behave as they are doing. Another constant concern in my part of London is the threats to our green belt and open spaces. Our woods, our commons and our playing fields provide pleasant surroundings in which to live, and they give character to an area. They also provide facilities for recreation and refreshment, for those living not only in that part of London but in inner London. Citizens of inner London flock to use these facilities, which cost neither them nor their councils anything. My constituents take exception to the Greater London Council's telling them what sort of housing density we should have in our area. They take exception to the GLC and inner London boroughs threatening to take our land and build upon it. Our objections are threefold. First, we believe that such decisions should be taken locally. Secondly, we  believe that we play our part in London's enormous housing problem. Infilling is going on constantly. Developers are enabled to build perhaps 12 houses on a site where there were one or two before while still maintaining the character of the area. This policy might be easier to maintain if there were less inconsistency in appeal decisions. It would be helpful if we could have some indication from the Ministry of the criteria on which it works. One-third of the properties in my constituency are local authority dwellings, but the local council's efforts to increase local authority dwellings are somewhat hampered by the cost yardstick. These figures are becoming virtually meaningless, and I hope that they will very soon be revised, if not abolished. If they are to be revised, I hope that the Minister will remove the differentiation which has existed in the past between the yardsticks for inner and outer London. It is ridiculous that there should be a difference of perhaps 10 per cent. or more appertaining to sites which are just a few yards apart. Thirdly, we object to the pressure put upon us, because we are not entirely convinced that within inner London all is being done that could be done to solve these problems. Reference has been made to dockland as an obvious example for potential development. It has been the subject of discussion and reports for far too long. The time for decision and action has arrived. There is scope, too, for urban renewal in many parts of inner London, and there are other sites on which development could take place. We see this daily, travelling up to London. To take but one example, is it really necessary to have within two or three miles of the centre of London a site for dumping old cars? Housing and transport are the biggest problems in London, but they are both areas in which imagination and decisive action could alleviate the problems, though I do not believe that they are capable of complete solution. They exist because more and more people want to live in and around London. They want to work in London. They want to travel into and around London. They do so because of what London is—one of the   world's greatest cities. When people cease to want to live here, to work here and to visit here, we shall have something to worry about.
