gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is 25 years since Faversham last had a Conservative Member of this House. I am sure that hon. Members opposite, from whom we have heard a great deal about equality today, will recognise and perhaps applaud our desire to retain this seat for at least an equal number of years. Neither I nor, I am glad to say, the majority of constituents of Faversham would have wanted a different result on 19th June. But no one will disagree with me when I pay tribute to the constituency  work and the sincerity of my predecessor, Mr. Terence Boston, who, by all accounts, was well liked on both sides of this House. There can be few constituencies as diverse or as attractive as Faversham which contains, within its 200 square miles, a typical cross-section of our national life and an equally typical cross-section of our national problems, to many of which I shall be referring in future debates. I particularly refer to the ancient borough of Faversham which shares with Sittingbourne, the largest of the towns in the constituency, a similar development of attractive, new housing estates, but with residents facing great burdens of high mortgage rates, soaring rail fares, long journeys to work and also to hospital. The Isle of Sheppey represents one third of the constituency. It is surprising how often one has to remind people that nearly 30,000 people live on the island which has much to be preserved and a great potential to be developed. We are faced with problems of high unemployment, of growth cramped by regional policies, of damage to the building and brick trade, and inadequate road and rail services. But there is also one acute short-term problem. Because of that I was particularly pleased, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to catch your eye. I refer to the grossly inadequate hospital services within the constituency, an inadequacy which has been further underlined by the closure of the important casualty ward on the Isle of Sheppey. Although this is a local problem, it is also symptomatic of something that is happening in the whole of Kent, and possibly throughout the country. At this time of the year the Isle of Sheppey, with its important holiday trade, has a population swollen from 30,000 to nearly 60,000. It is linked to the mainland by a lifting bridge, which can sometimes be raised for an hour or more for repairs, and the crowded roads can mean that the 20-mile journey to the Medway accident centre can take a matter of hours. Hon. Members will understand the concern of local residents for the serious and tragic consequences that could flow from such a closure. The fact is that there is an acute and serious shortage of casualty officers throughout the south of England. This shortage threatens many other important accident casualty centres in the area. It is a sad reflection on the times in which we live that in this most important aspect of our lives we are faced not with an improving or more convenient hospital service but with a cut back in local hospital services. We have heard much this evening about the standard of living generally. Surely it is a major feature of our standard of living that we should provide adequate and convenient hospital services to the people of this country. There are many signs that this trend of cut backs will continue. One major factor must be the terms of pay and the conditions of employment under which hospital doctors are working. We are informed that there is a continuing high rate of emigration of British doctors and that at the same time there is a reducing inflow of immigrant doctors coming here either to train or, indeed, to work. Neither of these trends is surprising. The fact is that they exist, and they indicate that a serious crisis could arise in our hospital service in the not-too-distant future unless action is taken in the fairly near future. Listening to the debate today, in which there has been a great deal of ideological discussion, one would not have recognised that this type of crisis could arise fairly soon. It showed not an ideological battle between the two sides about where the money is to come from. It is a question of resources. We must provide more resources for our hospital services. Clearly it is a question of where the money will come from. I will return to this point briefly when I have dealt with one or two more important points on which I wish to touch. I do not wish to go into the extensive arguments for or against a major programme for the district general hospital and the reducing rôle of the local hospital facilities. However, reference has been made to the report that came out this morning from the Office of Health Economics which cast serious doubt on placing too much reliance or emphasis on the district general hospital system. We must  all recognise that those plans are so extensive and all-embracing that they virtually exclude the expansion of many of the other services. If we place too much emphasis on those services we could be running grave risks of running down other equally important local community facilities in the years ahead. I hope that it is not a question of ideology. I hope that the new Secretary of State will closely study the whole system and ensure that this major hospital programme is putting our limited resources to the best possible use. There is plenty of evidence that only a small percentage of casualties and hospital cases need the intensive care and treatment with which we associate the major general district hospitals. Equally—this very much concerns Faversham—in a rural or partly rural, partly urban area the over-centralisation of resources means a starvation of the peripheral towns of services and an inevitable decline of the local services which they receive at present. To close a cottage hospital—this seems to be the trend at present—possibly means a serious loss of staff. Nurses who work locally will not travel considerable distances to the main centre. Certainly it means more inconvenience to patients and to visitors, and it means a loss of the community interest in that particular hospital. Faversham has a hospital supported by the general practitioners. It is an excellent example of how a G.P. hospital can work very well for the local community. Incidentally it is backed by considerable sums of money raised by voluntary effort from the community. It seems a tragedy that the plans for our hospital services involve the community being deprived of this local interest. It is surely an unfortunate feature of the age that these plans for centralising resources should take away the community interest in something so vital as the health services. Surely it is right—this comes back to the question of money—that the community should take a vital and a financial part in the provision of health services. If a small town wishes to see better facilities and cannot obtain those facilities through the National Health Service system, what is ideologically wrong with encouraging industry, perhaps encouraging the trade unions, through the taxation   system, to provide those facilities at an earlier date than otherwise might be possible and perhaps encouraging individuals through the tax system to provide such facilities? It is not just a question of their getting better treatment or helping the revenue of the hospital services at that time, but it could be that by looking closely at this whole question of community provision, or individual provision, we might be able to help with the whole capital programme as well. It seems to me a crazy philosophy which says that a person can provide himself with a television set, or candy floss, or a car, but when it comes to important things like health and education, private enterprise, private provision, is somehow improper or immoral. I hope that we shall look closely at the whole question of private provision, because it could make a major contribution to the capital programme as well as to the current income position of the health services. I hope very much that dogma will not be allowed to intervene. We know that the hospital services will need far greater resources in the years to come. It is a question of where these come from, and if private provision can make a greater contribution, it is strange that hon. Gentlemen opposite should seek to oppose this. I have been a little puzzled in hearing hon. Gentlemen opposite talk about prescription charges. Not having been here in previous Parliaments, I was under the impression that hon. Gentlemen opposite had introduced them, but to judge from the remarks of almost every speech from the Labour benches one would get the impression that a handsome majority would have voted against their introduction. One would like to think that, having gone through the traumatic experience of introducing charges, which made a minor contribution to the total revenue of the hospital services, they were perhaps moving towards bridging the gulf between us, and that ideology would no longer intervene. It seems to me that on this whole question of the provision of hospital services we have to devote far greater resources; doctors have to be paid more, and there have to be better conditions of employment, otherwise in years to  come we shall face a severe crisis. It is a crisis which we are facing locally in my constituency, and I hope very much that we shall be able to take steps to ensure that it is not a national crisis in years to come.
