gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the indulgence and tolerance of the House while I make my first speech in this Chamber. I have recently been given the honour to represent my constituents in this House   owing to the death of their former Member. I never had the privilege of personally knowing my predecessor, Tom Price, but I knew of him and I have been left in no doubt by the many people to whom I have spoken of the esteem, affection and genuine respect that was afforded to him by his constituents, his friends and his Parliamentary colleagues. Tom Price represented Westhoughton for 22 years. He spoke regularly in many debates in this Chamber and served on many Committees of this House. But I think that he will be best remembered for his knowledge and expertise in the sphere of pensions and superannuation. I am sure that his presence enriched this Chamber. My constituency has a long and proud record of Labour representation in this House, going back over half a century. Its people are endowed with an abundance of Lancashire humour and friendliness. The six townships within its boundaries were built upon the traditional industries of Lancashire—coal mining, textiles and railway workshops. Some of those industries have now sadly declined, but they have been replaced by other industries which reflect the rapid growth in technology that took place whilst Toni Price was a Member of Parliament. However, there are still many problems within the constituency which need to be tackled. The inadequate number of council houses and the very long waiting lists for this type of accommodation are matters that give rise to a great deal of concern. We have made great progress in building new schools and greater recreation facilities, but much remains to be done before we completely eradicate the terrible old buildings in which many of the children in my constituency are being taught. It is particularly significant that the debate today is about the rapid increase in the cost of living, prices and inflation generally. Indeed, those of us who have gained electoral success recently know full well that the predominant issue throughout our campaigns was that of rising prices. The way in which the wages and salaries of my constituents and, indeed, those of many others are being remorselessly eroded by constantly rising prices was the issue, above any other, that was causing the most concern. I took a great deal of interest in the Prime Minister's speech when he spoke about inflation. I know from personal experience, prior to entering this House, how difficult it is to balance the family budget when, on the one hand, my wife wanted more money for the weekly groceries and, on the other, my wage packet was not increasing. Indeed, many people's wage packets were actually frozen. But if the situation is difficult for my wife and others like her, I am sure that it must be terribly difficult for those on fixed incomes and old-age pensioners when they try to live and eat properly in our ""Better Tomorrow"". The scandalous rise in the prices of fresh foodstuffs recently is constantly being talked about by the women in my constituency. Indeed, only the other day one of my constituents, who happens to be an old-age pensioner, told me that she paid 15p for three small onions. No wonder she wept when she peeled them! The explanation about the rising cost of world food, however tenuously linked to the truth, left her singularly unimpressed. So there is now a substantial case for a direct increase of the old-age pension along the lines proposed by the Opposition. Unfortunately, inflation, and the failure to deal effectively with it, does not confine itself to food alone. I was profoundly saddened by the frustrations of many young people in my constituency who want to get married but cannot afford to buy a house. It seems that the splendid ideal of having a home of one's own is now beyond the bounds of possibility for most young people, because the speculation and obscene profiteering in housing and land has been allowed to continue without any effective legislation to prevent it. I think that my constituents and the people of this country as a whole have a right to demand positive action by the Government to stop the continued erosion of their standard of living. If the Government are really serious about providing a better tomorrow, they can start now by repealing the Housing Finance Act, abolishing prescription charges, making positive attempts to distribute the wealth of this nation evenly amongst the people, and substantially increasing the old-age   pension. If these measures were adopted, I am sure that the Government's talks with the TUC about phase 3 of their prices and incomes policy would be more meaningful. If, however, the Government still stubbornly refuse to do any-think positive about the inflationary situation in which we now find ourselves, the people of this country will do it for them at the next General Election. I thank the House for a courteous and tolerant hearing.
