gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very glad to catch your eye, Mr. Speaker, in this much-truncated Welsh affairs debate. It is a great pleasure to be called immediately after the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnor (Mr. Hooson), because it gives me an opportunity to say how much I appreciated his kind words for the former hon. Member for his constituency, Caerwyn Roderick. The very first political name to fall upon my ears as a child in the county of Carmarthen about to enter a grammar school at the beginning of the war was that of Jim Griffiths. His poet brother was then caretaker at that school and, to this day, Jim remains an inspiration to me personally, being from the Amman valley. In the valley further west, the Member of Parliament was not Jim but an equally revered man named Daniel Hopkin. He was the man who won my seat first for Labour back in 1935. Little did I think that I should be privileged to become its Labour Member of Parliament and to represent here, in the cradle of democracy, people who flout the electoral convention to an extent worthy of a permanent place in the ""Guinness Book of Records"". The non-Socialist vote in Carmarthen baffles most people. There is a volatility of opinion. There is a tendency to vote for a personality. In the main, that is the most feasible explanation why, when a Labour Government go out of office, the constituency of Carmarthen returns to the Labour fold. The converse holds good as well, of course. At the time of the Labour landslide in 1945, when the country at large realised who should be entrusted with the   rebuilding of society after the Second World War, Carmarthen rejected its Labour Member of Parliament. For 12 years the Liberals, taking full advantage of the Conservatives not fielding a candidate, ruled the roost, often holding back the Labour challenge by only a few hundred votes. This fact hardly reflected the very deep respect in which Sir Rhys Hop-kin Morris was held in Wales and in Westminster. Plaid Cymru finally took the parliamentary plunge at the 1956 general election, and it was my party which suffered the greater setback. Then the Suez crisis was upon us and, at the by-election in the immediate aftermath of that fruitless escapade, the physically diminutive but politically mature daughter of the famous Lloyd George won the hearts and votes of the people of Carmarthen. She remained our Member of Parliament for what was for many a short decade, fighting the 1966 election from her deathbed. At the ensuing by-election, my immediate predecessor began two full parliamentary terms. The first heralded a nationalist upsurge, in Scotland as well as in the industrial valleys of Wales. It started a process of democratic devolution for the two countries, then of course only a minute ripple but one which 20 years later led to the election through which we have just come. Advantaged by a first-class legal brain and finding himself in a personal position where he could dedicate himself totally as a young man to the politics of the Principality, my predecessor, Mr. Gwyn-for Evans, had the immense capacity of obtaining total commitment from those sensitive and sympathetic to his analysis of the situation in Wales. It goes without saying that my analysis and my conclusions differ vastly from his. Culturally, we are probably not all that far apart except on such matters as the fourth television channel. However, our horizons and our aspirations for the people of Wales are poles apart. I acknowledge that although my methods are sincere, they could also, at times, be wrong and misplaced. The love of one's country, its heritage and its well-being are certainly not the prerogative of one political party. The efforts of others with whom one may disagree do not deserve continual spurning and intolerant reaction. Mr. Gwynfor Evans's two full parliamentary terms were separated by our being represented by a young man of great energy and talent, already mentioned by the Government Front Bench, Mr. Gwynoro Jones. He served the constituency well. But, just as in 1945, so between the two elections of 1974, when things were moving Labour's way, Carmarthen was lost for Labour, and we lost a fine constituency Member of Parliament. The past five years have witnessed torrents of criticism from those now in charge of the Welsh Office as well as from those demanding that our political and economic salvation lies along separatist lines. Labour's measures for combating unemployment were wasteful according to the former and totally inadequate according to the latter. We in Dyfed much appreciated the Welsh Office announcement last November that money for school capital building projects was to be almost doubled for the coming three years. Much of this money will go on secondary school reorganisation, leaving far too little to replace our many Dickensian primary schools. A greater portion of such money has to be used upon the upkeep of existing old schools which, honestly, are not fit to be places for the education of our younger children. Falling numbers in schools is no excuse for cutbacks. Now we have a great chance for smaller classes, for more nursery provision and for concentrating upon the needs of less academically inclined children to prepare them for their future at work in society. A vast sum of money will be needed soon for a new school in Milford Haven. That is outside my constituency but I am still a member of the Dyfed education authority and so responsible for that area. This will cost almost as much as Dyfed is being allowed to spend on new school buildings for the coming three years. I can assure the Secretary of State that all hell will be let loose if he sanctions a new school at Milford in order to boost his own, standing at the expense of the remainder of Dyfed. While we are talking in round figures—in the realms of possibly £3 million or £4 million—will the Secretary of State give the latest thinking on how Dyfed ratepayers are to be given some financial relief for the financing of the famous, or   possibly infamous, Cleddau bridge? Financing specific election promises will probably be of interest to the whole of Wales and not only its south-west corner. The ever-increasing proportion of our population over retirement age presents us with a huge inescapable problem. The attitude of those in power and how they react to this mounting problem reflects their basic outlook and philosophy. On the doorsteps just four weeks ago I felt very proud of our attitude, as a Labour Party, to the elderly. They in turn were even then openly expressing fears that a new Government would bring into being a more inflexible and decidedly harsher approach. As far as is humanly possible, the elderly should be integrated into the community and should enjoy to the full the social and cultural life of any district. I have for far too long been intimately connected with the social services committee of a local authority. It is trying its best with a limited budget to go as far as is economically possible. Such committees must have finances to provide comprehensive meals on wheels and home helps without having to carry out offensive investigations into the intimate finances of the elderly. I assure the Secretary of State that in the country in Wales which we both have the honour to represent, the fears of cutbacks and the provision of even more skimpy and skeletal social services than hitherto is a reality that people are beginning to face as Tory designs are becoming more and more openly understood by all. We in Wales are very proud of our continuing contribution to evolutionary Socialism essentially based upon our long radical tradition—an ethnic radicalism which grew out of working-class non-conformity. Being brought up in a South-West Wales mining valley during the late 1930s, when poverty and hardship abounded, has made me deeply distrustful of and antagonistic towards the Tory capitalist motive all my working life. But I have to admit that I have moved in professional circles noted for conservatism with both a small and a capital ""C"". These days there may be very little political mileage in harping back to the black days of the thirties, but there has been a more threatening attitude from this Administration to the whole fabric of our society than at any time since those dark days of dejection and destitution. I have a fear that Wales—a land which needs and is dependent upon community financial support more than practically any other part of the United Kingdom—may soon be facing problems on a par with the 'thirties. We welcome any assurances that the dedication, so apparent hitherto in the Welsh Office, to better east-west communications within Wales will continue under the present incumbents. However, can we expect the same degree of urgency and total commitment? Can we in West Wales still look forward to having a first-class dual carriageway west of the M4 to the Whitland side of St. Clears? We are lucky on unemployment in the Carmarthen area—a rate of only 3·6 per cent. But in areas north and west of the county agriculture and tourist industries are not enough. Despite better prospects, which are the direct result of the actions of the former Secretary of State with his enlightened road and factory policy, new and diverse industries are needed to press home the obvious advantage of better communication. Last week I went along to offer moral support to the Dyfed stand at The Sunday Times business-to-business exhibition at Earls Court. Possibly as one of Dyfed's four Members of Parliament, the Secretary of State was also invited. No doubt he did his duty by his prestigious presence. The selling of Dyfed is an immense problem, but the policies of this Administration will make the task of our industrial officers ever so much greater. The Conservatives took a long while to stop being cynical about the Welsh Development Agency. With the set of priorities that this Administration have announced, there will be other areas much nearer the main population centres of Britain and the Continent that will be fighting for job-creating enterprises. When, as the Tories expect, the total of jobless creeps up to the 2 million mark, what magical cure will the Secretary of   State have for attracting jobs and industries to Dyfed? It will probably embrace the three great personal virtues from the thirteenth chapter of Corinthians—faith, hope and charity, and the Tories are not noted for their handing out of the last.
