gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Today I represent for the first time the constituents of North Thanet who sent me here. I hope that during my speech I can make it clear that this debate relates directly to their needs, which I shall always seeks to advance. The Isle of Thanet is steeped in history. It can claim to have provided the foundation of the English language, but despite that in recent years it has been largely ignored. On looking through our Library of 150,000 books I found only one volume that mentioned the Isle of Thanet, and that was written in Middle English. However, our librarians are not easily defeated. They acquired for me a copy of a book called ""The Bulwark Shore"". In that book I found ""Margate-Kiss Me Quick!, but even that is behind the times because now we do it more slowly and enjoy it more. North Thanet is a new constituency made up from two parts of north-east Kent. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Rees-Davies, who represented the old seat of Thanet, West. He overcame considerable physical difficulties, and for 30 years gave to the House and to his constituents the benefit of his considerable and colourful debating skills and knowledge. I also pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Canterbury (Mr. Crouch), who contributed the village of Herne and the seaside town of Herne Bay to my constituency. My hon. Friend has always said that it is one of his favourite places, and I understand why. I am proud to represent it in this its 150th glorious year. In Herne Bay and Margate I am fortunate to have two of the finest seaside resorts in the country. In 1780, Margate was described as a ""place of gaiety and dissipation"". It was there that the discreet bathing machine was introduced. Modern Margate has other, but equally attractive, dissipations to offer the holidaymaker. Two-thirds of my constituency is grade 1 agricultural land. North Thanet has the finest arable land in Europe, and the farmers, through hard work, grow three crops a year on it. The remaining third of my constituency is seaside towns and villages. The air is good and the people are healthy and long-lived. For many, the North Thanet coast represents a retirement dream. For that reason, many of my constituents are elderly and have special needs. The House will know of the old lady who, in her 97th year, was asked what life was like. She replied quickly, ""Very good, when you consider the alternative."" However, behind that riposte lies a sad truth. Many of our old people are discarded by their families and now live in homes. I do not decry our old people's homes and hospitals—in North Thanet, they are run with affection, dedication, compassion and care—but in many other societies those old people, with their vast wealth of humour and experience, would be cared for within the family unit and revered. If in saying that I, too, am suggesting a return to some Victorian values, I see no shame in that. If we are to embrace our grandparents within the family home, we must encourage our young to stay. In North Thanet that means new industries and the jobs that they will provide. In times of danger, the Isle of Thanet has always been in the front line, but since the war we have been neglected for too long. My hon. Friend the Member for Thanet, South (Mr. Aitken) and I look forward to the day when, under this Government, the port of Ramsgate will enjoy free port status and all the benefits that that will bring. I look forward to the day when Margate and Herne Bay will have marinas that will attract money and visitors from the Continent. I also look forward to the day when, in North Thanet, a science park developing new technologies, and feeding on the university of Kent, will bring vitality and prosperity to my constituency. All those advances will be brought about not through handouts but through private enterprise — and so they should be. I hope to mention all those matters in the House in the coming months, but to turn those dreams into reality we must have better communications. The road to my constituency, the Thanet way, must be improved. I shall raise that matter at the proper time and place with my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Transport and with my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State, the hon. Member for Wallasey (Mrs. Chalker). Upon that road depends the entire economic future of the Isle of Thanet. With your licence, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and with the tolerance of the House, I have, like the rolling English drunkard, rambled round my shire, but now I come to the subject of today's debate. Communications means more than road and rail — it means the development of advanced technology. If Britain is not to be left behind, it must take boldly a great leap forward, and it must take that leap soon. As Jack Kennedy said, we must stop looking at things as they are and complaining, ""Why?"" We must look at things that have never been and ask, ""Why not?"" The projected cable system discussed in the White Paper represents the most dramatic potential that Britain has had for many years. The opportunity that it offers, not only for the relay of leisure programmes but for the carrying of information for education and trade, is huge. I hope that at the end of the debate the House will give cable television a resounding go-ahead. However, I wish the House to consider three issues arising from the White Paper—two by omission and one by inclusion. With regard to the ""must carry"" obligation placed upon franchise holders and detailed in paragraph 129, it is entirely proper that a cable operator should be required to carry the existing terrestrial broadcast channels. Those channels — BBC 1 and 2, ITV and Channel 4 — are already broadcast from earth and together make up our public service broadcasting. However, we must also consider the difference between broadcasting and what has become known as ""narrowcasting"", which is the true purpose of cable television. Under existing plans, a cable operator will be required to carry not only the BBC and ITV channels but a further five DBS channels. Hon. Members in the Chamber understand cable television, but others who read the report of the debate may not. The House should imagine a pipeline containing perhaps 25 smaller pipes, each capable of carrying a single service. Four of those pipes will be taken by existing BBC and ITV services. I am not a television engineer but I  understand that the nature of DBS is such that to feed five of them into the cable network would take not five but nine further small pipes because of the bandwidth used. The effect of the proposals in the White Paper would tie up more than half the channels available to franchise operators before they even start work. Paragraph 165 states: The Government does not believe that it should intervene in the commercial judgments which the industry itself should take. In shackling the franchise holder to so many predetermined channels, we are in danger of contradicting that statement. The House should consider two omissions from the White Paper. It pays scant regard, if any, to the true potential of local community programming, which is what ""narrowcasting"" is all about. ""Narrowcasting"" represents a genuine opportunity to satisfy local and minority demands. The mention of minorities immediately raises the spectre of a lunatic fringe pressure group, subversive programming and even of Big Brother. At best, community television has become synonymous with amateurism and poor quality. The House has often—sometimes with justification—accused the media of bias. From the Opposition Benches the cry is usually against the press; from the Government Benches it is traditionally the BBC and ITV which bear the brunt of criticism. We have looked for reds behind the microphones and for jackboots in Printing House square. My experience as a broadcaster has led me to believe that output is, more often than not, directly related to input. We should be looking not at the messenger but at the message itself. We shall not get the balance right by tampering with the electoral system or by censorship. The recent election has shown that if the message is good it will be well received; if not, it will be rightly rejected. We should set aside our natural fears and look at the true potential for local programming in cable television. In my constituency it will provide a service for the elderly and will allow charitable and other voluntary organisations access to air time to talk directly to the community that they seek to serve. It will provide a genuinely local service, catering for small numbers, that people want, yet there is no provision for that in the White Paper. That is a serious omission. I mentioned DBS earlier. It will be with us within two years, but what authority will control it? No suitable authority currently exists. If there is to be a relationship between cable and DBS, surely a new authority should represent both. If so, the cable authority needs to be established now. That should be a priority. With those provisions we have a wonderful opportunity. I said earlier that I wished to see my constituents in the front line of technology. It is a catchment area entirely suited to such a bold advance. I ask that the Isle of Thanet should be one of the first areas to receive a franchise. What better than to build a new road and to lay beneath it Britain's first new cable system?
