gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for having been called this morning because one of the first of the new Members to make a maiden speech yesterday was my hon. Friend the Member for Derbyshire, South (Mrs. Currie). She is a constituent of mine and I should not have liked to return to Northfield without having spoken within a couple of days of her speech. Northfield is on the outer suburbs of Birmingham. I welcome the Government's policy of abolishing the metropolitan county councils. For too long Birmingham has been immersed in this great black country conglomerate of divided authorities. It has lost its identity and, if nothing else, we hope to resume out mantle of being Great Britain's second great city within the next few years. The House will remember the constituency's late Member Mr. Jocelyn Cadbury who, unfortunately, passed away about 12 months ago. He blazed the Conservative trail in Northfield that constitutents still remember well. No problem was too great for him and he discharged diligently his responsibilities to his constituents. At the by-election in October Mr. John Spellar was returned to the House as a Labour Member. During the   short time that he represented Northfield he discharged his duties competently. I had the opportunity to meet him on the hustings only, but I was aware of his talent and of his adherence to his party's policies. We managed to debate distinctly and succinctly, each putting forward our point of view. The constituency contains the Austin-Rover plant at Longbridge. The factory employs some 10,000 people, about half of whom live in the constituency. It is one of British Leyland's biggest factories. I believe that I was returned as the Conservative Member because people recognised the work that the Government had done to revitalise the car industry and the evident dangers of our withdrawing from the European Community which would have led to a reduction in demand for the vehicles being produced. One third of British Leyland's output goes to Community countries. One has only to see the number of Austin Metros with left-hand drive leaving the assembly line to realise the penetration that that model has achieved within the Community and appreciate the danger of withdrawing from Europe. British Leyland is building up a relationship with Honda, one of its Japanese competitors, and they are now becoming partners. That has already been evidenced by the Triumph Acclaim, which ranks fifth in the British car hit parade. It will no doubt continue to play an important part in British Leyland's output. There are greater things on the horizon. There is the forthcoming design cooperation with Honda on the so-called BL-Honda executive car. I look forward to Longbridge being chosen as the home for this new car. A large number of former BL employees have expressed a desire to return to the job of building cars which they know so well. Many of us in the west midlands have looked around for new industries. It is an area of a thousand and one trades and we welcome the opportunity that technological advance will bring to introduce sunrise industries. However, I believe that some of our old-established companies still have a vital part to play. The car industry must continue to develop. It is the engine with which we shall pull the coach of our industry. About 700 subcontractors, not just in the west midlands but throughout the country, depend upon a vibrant and dynamic car industry. In the past small companies have relied upon the long production run of the tiniest of components to offset the cost of developing, introducing and investing in new plant and equipment. They in turn, having amortised their costs through the long production runs that the car industry has given, have then been able to embark upon other products and developments to produce goods which are not just tied to the car industry but which are wanted in the United Kingdom and overseas. We must maintain the momentum that is building up within our car industry. I am delighted to inform the House that at Longbridge, at least, there is overtime and Saturday working to keep pace with the demand for the product. That had not been thought possible a few years ago. Overtime and Saturday working were taken for granted during the late 1950s and 1960s, but had slipped away during the past 10 years or so. The work force can now rely on some overtime to keep up with demand. We seek to provide not just the cyclical boom that the industry is beginning to enjoy because of the registration  number plate change on 1 August, but momentum throughout the year. We do not want to return to the old stop-go principle used by successive Governments as an economic regulator to keep the economy on a straight line. I hope that the reference in the Gracious Speech to improving the prosperity and employment prospects of our people will lead to the Government considering seriously the 10 per cent. special tax which the motor industry alone has to bear. We see no reason why we should be singled out in that way. A case for it could perhaps have been made two or three years ago when BL's products were not competitive and when any taxation reduction would merely have sucked in vast imports. That is no longer the case. BL's products are first rate and competitive and are finding greater acceptance worldwide. There are exciting products on the stocks at the moment which will be in production within the next 12 months or so. We shall then have a complete model range and will be able to face the competition head on. We look forward to fiscal encouragement to bring that about. At Longbridge we make three or four car models, but we make engine transmissions for a wider range, assembled at other factories. Therefore, any encouragement by the Government to stimulate production will almost immediately be reflected in job opportunities and prospects in Northfield. There are exciting developments on the horizon in the motor trade. I said that we in the west midlands are looking for sunrise industries. We already have one on our doorstep. Making motor cars is no longer a simple process of metal bashing; it is advanced casting technology. One can take an engine that weighs 120 lb and halve the weight of it, thanks to advanced casting computerised techniques. It is about electronics, computerisation of the car ignition system, monitoring and so on. It is about combustion technology. Some of the technical improvements on which British Leyland is embarking and now making on experimental cars lead us to expect great and dramatic improvements over the next 10 years or so. If only we could produce the car of tomorrow in the next two years or so, many of the problems in the west midlands would be solved. It will take time, but I am sure that we want to support the motor industry in its efforts to re-establish itself as a dynamic organisation and a major exporter. The other aspect of the Gracious Speech that concerns much of our industry, particularly BL, is privatisation. It concerns my constituents immensely. They are worried that privatisation may lead them back to the dark days of the 1960s, when the industry was used by the Government as a stop-go indicator of production, and when the tap was turned off just as production was improving because the country had run into a balance of payments deficit. They are worried that privatisation means exactly that—that somebody private will buy the business and perhaps start to asset-strip. I loathe and detest the word ""privatisation"". We are talking about denationalisation which, in the eyes of many of my constituents, is totally different from privatisation. The policy of denationalisation—handing back business to the public from the state sector and getting the state off the people's backs—is a recipe for certain success, but I hope that in any denationalisation process that we embark upon the opportunity will be given for the average working man to take part in the investment and management of the company that is being denationalised. We as a party and as a Government have set out, embarked upon and carried out a great policy of encouraging people to become involved in a property-owning democracy. We can go a step further and introduce an era of the business-owning democracy. I look forward ultimately, taking it to its logical conclusion, to the betting shops in the high street being swept away and to high street stock shops taking their place so that if someone in his lunch break wants a flutter on British Rail inter-city shares he can have one. Perhaps that is taking it to too absurd a level, but the opportunity of bringing the business world out of the closet into the high street and into an area where the average man can comprehend what finance and responsibility in business life are all about is to be welcomed. Birmingham is a city of a thousand and one trades, but alas only about a dozen technologies. We need to invest heavily in training schemes to bring people into technology. Some of our resources are slim, not befitting a city that has played such an important part in our industrial past. I look forward to the Government taking every opportunity and leaving no stone unturned in investing in educational programmes, particularly in the advanced technologies. We should bear it in mind that new investment costs a lot of money. When companies have produced new products, they want a guaranteed market for them. There is a growing concern in the motor industry that many of the products that it develops, which take a long time to develop, are being copied by other countries. That is called counterfeiting. We take a grave view when people counterfeit the currency of the realm. Just such a bad offence is to counterfeit products that our ingenuity has devised and that our money and resources have backed. That growing trend in some of the emerging far eastern countries is a danger that we should look at closely. We should impose upon the countries that export products to this country that are copies of products made here or handle them in any part of the world the strongest penalties for what is a destroyer of jobs and investment. We are on the verge of a revitalisation of the Birmingham area and the west midlands. I look forward to the motor industry in particular playing its part in developing and bringing prosperity to the area and in its train sucking in thousands of small companies and businesses, which, if they had all the money in the world, still need the major products of this country with which to bring their production into line.
