gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I appreciate being called to make my maiden speech in this important debate. I listened with great care to the hon. Member for Birmingham, Ladywood (Ms. Short). Our common theme is the great concern of the parents and schoolchildren in our constituencies for youth training. The county constituency of Kettering consists of about 400 square miles of central Northamptonshire. It has the same name as a former constituency that was changed substantially in the boundary changes earlier this year. The old seat lost Corby and the borough of Kettering has added to it the eastern part of the old Daventty constituency. I pay tribute to Mr. William Homewood who represented the old constituency comprising the Kettering and Corby boroughs on the Labour Benches in the previous Parliament. He was assiduous in his efforts, especially on the part of Corby, which now falls into a new seat and which is represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Corby (Mr. Powell), who is as new to this place as I am. I wish also to thank my right hon. Friend the Member for Daventry (Mr. Prentice). His kind help and advice are much appreciated. I look forward to serving the interests of those in the rural community of Northamptonshire and to take up their problems, particularly the proposed A1-M1 link road. The major industry in my constituency, after agriculture, is men's footwear manufacturing. I look forward to referring to the problems of the industry on a suitable occasion. The community has a good labour relations record. It has excellent rail services. I know that both those factors will persuade more companies to locate in Kettering. The two local authorities in the constituency, the Kettering borough council and the Daventry district council, which are both Conservative-controlled, have made great progress in controlling and reducing rates while maintaining services. I look forward to working with both councils to serve the entire community. According to some, Charles Dickens had Kettering in mind when he wrote about disorderly election scenes at Eatanswill. I can assure the House that those literary scenes of disorder were not repeated on 9 June. I am honoured to serve all the sober citizens of my constituency, whatever their political persuassions may be. I am pleased, also, to join my fellow accountants in the House, who I believe number 20. I aim to follow the motto of my profession—recte numerare—in the proceedings of the House or, for the benefit of the Whips, more particularly on the Finance Bill. The youth training scheme has been widely welcomed in my constituency by the employers and the local authorities as a way of improving the basic skills and motivations of youngsters in a world in which technological change has made jobs more difficult. I do not regard the scheme as merely a means of occupying the time of unemployed youngsters. The Government's intentions are much more honourable than that and should be applauded. They are applauded by my constituents. My right hon. Friend the Member for Cambridgeshire, South-East (Mr. Pym), in the debate on the Queen's Speech, asked us to acknowledge the present technological  revolution and remarked that we need completely new attitudes towards employment. I share his view. The YTS is a step in the right direction at one end of the age spectrum. On a more suitable occasion I shall return to the point raised by other hon. Members about reducing the present retirement age of 65. Although resources are limited, I hope that during this Parliament the Government can make real progress towards better technical training for all 16 to 18-year-olds in non-academic education. I wish briefly to describe four ways in which the youth training scheme can be improved. First, youngsters must be encouraged to make themselves indispensable to their employers. It is not sufficient for the MSC, in its literature, simply to advise youngsters to keep in touch with jobcentres. The MSC should be in direct contact with the trainees three months after the start of the course to draw their attention to the need to sell their enthusiasm and skills to their prospective employers. The MSC should tell them, of course, that there can be no guarantee of a permanent job. However, a high placement rate next summer will be vital to the way in which youngsters view the scheme next autumn. The first intake has a great responsibility to help make the scheme work. Secondly, the next priority must be to widen the scheme to take in unemployed school leavers not only aged 17, but 18. An 18-year-old leaving school is sometimes as much in need of a planned transition to work as a 16-year-old. Thirdly, the qualifying period for the community programme of six months unemployment, or a minimum age of 18, should be changed in its relationship with the YTS. If those on the YTS cannot find a permanent job at the end of their training, with their enthusiasm greatly enhanced by the scheme, they should be found places in the community programme when they are available. I know that there will be places available in my constituency and I want youngsters to move straight from the YTS to the community programme. Although that is not as satisfactory as a permanent job, it is better than nothing. Will the Minister consider the technical changes necessary to implement that suggestion? Fourthly, the MSC must have prompt and sensitive means to stop any exploitation by employers. I hope that that will not happen, but if it does it will greatly demoralise the trainees. The MSC should check directly with the trainees after three months of the course to ascertain their views. There is all-party support in the House for the scheme. It has been an appropriate subject for a maiden speech. The scheme needs the support of the whole community. It is certainly supported in my constituency, where I am confident that places will be available. Above all, the scheme needs the support of youngsters in both numbers and enthusiasm. Opposition Members mentioned that the financial incentives were not overwhelming and I know that some of the programmes will not be thrilling. But the message of the Government to the youngsters of Britain this summer should be, ""We have done our part; now you do yours.""
