gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
At this hour of the morning, a Baedeker-type tour of even the most beautiful constituency in the kingdom would, I suggest, have slight limitations of appeal. I shall say no more than that Monmouth has in its historic towns of Abergavenny, Chepstow, Monmouth and Usk a rich architectural heritage well up to any European standards. The valley of the River Wye is a jewel of European beauty that has long been appreciated. It is part of the great tradition of the 18th century formulation of the picturesque, which is the one British contribution to European aesthetics that is matched by nothing else in Europe. Having said that, I must pay tribute to my immediate predecessor. It is fair to say that he and I had substantial differences, but he was always courteous and hard working. Like the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson), I have no doubt that those in the Labour party responsible for such matters will ensure his return to this House for some other constituency. Monmouth's former Member of Parliament, the late Sir John Stradling Thomas, was well known to hon. Members and was much loved. He is well remembered in the constituency. My constituents have a long, active and robust tradition of involvement in Europe, beginning with the battle of Agincourt. In the 18th century the gentlemen of Monmouth erected an especially fine temple on the Kymin to celebrate the victories of British admirals. It has always been at the forefront of British foreign policy to maintain the balance of power in Europe and to maintain our interests and our influence to the best extent possible with the means at our disposal. I say to those hon. Friends who have criticised: what would our right hon. Friends have done? What else do they propose? Do they suggest that we should leave the European Community? I can tell them that I have heard very little support for that proposition in any section of the community. Indeed, the commercial interests in my constituency would be horrified at such a proposal. If it is not to be withdrawal from the European Community, what do the critics of the Maastricht agreement propose? Are they suggesting that my right hon. Friends could have extracted a better agreement? If so, they are not being realistic. The Government had a truly remarkable achievement at Maastricht, the true import of which has clearly been realised by the Labour party. Certain doctrinal statements in the treaty, as amended and proposed, are of considerable significance for the whole Conservative approach to politics over the last decade. For example, new article 3a refers to the adoption of an economic policy that is conducted in accordance with the principle of an open market economy with free competition. Those who seek to divide the policy of my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister from that of his predecessor should reflect on the fact that it has been the main thrust of Conservative Administrations to emphasise the importance of a free open market in Europe. The second paragraph of new article 3a, in describing the arrangement for monetary matters, refers to a single monetary policy and exchange rate policy the primary definition and conduct of both … shall be to maintain price stability, and without prejudice to this objective, to support the general economic policies in the Community, in accordance with the principle of an open market economy with free competition. I cannot imagine anything more fundamentally in alignment with what my right hon. and hon. Friends have fought for over the past decade or so. When one looks at the statute proposed for the bank, it says that the primary objective will be to maintain price stability. An Opposition Member rightly said earlier that that primacy is stated boldly, plainly and without any material qualification of the sort that one might have expected if one were of a socialist disposition, requiring, for example, conditions on full employment or a trade-off between inflation and employment. What we see in the treaty is a bold political revolution carried out by my right hon. Friends in Europe which has   carried Conservative principles to the forefront of the Community. It is rather like the achievement of privatisation, a political principle which has been applied in practice throughout the world and has transformed and undermined the approach of a whole generation or two to socialism and the order of the state. The commercial interests of my constituency believe passionately that for their exports they want a single free market in which to trade. But if it is to be a free single open market, provided it works and provided the safeguards are appropriate, that must ultimately mean a single currency. It is all very well looking back upon the attractions of floating exchange rates, but when we have a treaty which sets out the principles of sound public finance and money, I find it deeply ironic to see some in the Conservative party who believe that a national right to sovereignty involves the right and freedom to debauch the currency at will. How that can possibly be justified I do not begin to comprehend. The Opposition have clearly realised the inherently revolutionary nature of the proposed treaty. It is amazing to see the heirs of Lloyd George and Maynard Keynes talking as though they were Montague Norman or Winston Churchill going back on the gold standard. That is the irony of the position that we have reached. The Liberal Democrats have swallowed that to a degree that leaves us breathtaken inasmuch as they seem to swallow it regardless of whether it works or not. But what now seems to have achieved universal acceptance is the fact that sound money is the primary basis of successful economic policy. That is a good thing and it is not something to be regretted. It is the necessary precondition of all freedom and prosperity. National Governments have no need, basis or right to intervene in monetary affairs. The best and most satisfactory arrangement of our finances was throughout the period from our constitutional revolution in 1688 until 1914 whereby, through a combination of freedom and constitutional liberty, the Bank of England, a properly managed public debt and the gold standard, we maintained stable prices for a century or more and were compelled only to come off those standards in periods of war and crisis. It is a wholly admirable objective in the modern context to introduce into the EC a system to guarantee a basically sound currency by an independent institution not corrupted by democratic interference or the interference of politicians who are more interested in short-term advantage than in the preservation of sound money and public finance. I find it deeply ironic that people talk about democratic control of central banks. We used to hear it argued that there had to be democratic control of the commanding heights of the economy. That was the justification of every socialist for nationalising them. There are aspects of our economy which have no business with politicians and are best left in free and independent hands. We should be clear that whereas that is consistent with the Conservative party's principles, traditions and practice, over the longer term the difficulties that it poses for the Opposition are immense. One notes the refreshing enthusiasm—something we have not seen of late—of the hon. Member for Neath (Mr. Hain) in stating socialist objections to the treaty based on its monetary soundness and the way it puts public finance on a firm footing. What of the more conciliatory and  adaptive members of the Opposition Front Bench? Labour has just fought a general election in which it campaigned for a number of things that the treaty would, it appears, rule out. How could a Labour party seeking government argue what it would do? Under the Maastricht treaty, Labour's borrowing as a proportion of gross domestic product would be limited, as would its ability to increase interest rates, print money, or fiddle the exchange rate. A Labour Government would therefore have to limit its expenditure or raise taxes to pay for it. The connection between the amount that Labour wanted to spend and the amount it would have to raise in direct taxation—a power which would remain in place—would be immediate, and incapable of obfuscation or evasion. I regard that as a wholly admirable achievement by my right hon. Friends. There has been talk of the severity of the loss of sovereignty. I accept that fear. I understand and appreciate the traditions of our constitution, but one must view the matter in the context of the age in which we live. My constituents appreciate that in the case of a paper mill in Sudbrook exporting to Germany. If the Germans altered the regulations in such a way as to interfere with that company's trade, it would be powerless—under a free trade arrangement—to do anything. The advantage of the European Community is that it makes it possible—at least in theory—to ensure a level playing field. It offers the possibility of running lorries from one end of this country to the far end of the European Community. It provides an opportunity to get car prices in this country down to more acceptable free market levels. With VAT harmonisation, hotel keepers, for example in the Wye valley, may have an opportunity to correct the gross injustice whereby they have to charge value added tax of 17·5 per cent. when, as many British people who enjoy cheap foreign holidays know, the hotel VAT rate abroad is minimal. Those would not be diminutions of the power of the British state, but opportunities within the new framework to extend our influence in such a way as to promote British commerce and trade. I see in the treaty that my right hon. Friends have achieved something that is traditional, coherent in itself, and wholly consistent with the finer traditions of British policy. Neither I nor my constituents want the social chapter. My right hon. Friends the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary rightly and successfully fought against that. We prefer to deal at intergovernmental level with the four fundamental issues of foreign policy, security, internal matters, and immigration. We believe that the strengthening of the Council of Ministers is highly desirable, and I do not begin to accept that there is a democratic deficiency in those arrangements. The treaty remains a treaty between states, with a new political organisation created alongside those states. The democratic element is this House in this country, and the Parliaments in other countries. As to the European Parliament, it is inconceivable that it is possible to create what we would understand as a representative parliamentary democracy, with constituencies of half a million or more individuals—particularly if one adopted proportional representation, multi-member constituencies, or some other arrangement of that convoluted variety. Such a course would gain the respect of only the Italian Parliament. What we have rightly done   —what my right hon. Friends have done—is to limit the opportunities for the European Parliament to useful and effective checks in limited areas. I do not believe that the federal fears that have been raised in the House are realistic. Removal of the word ""federal"" from the treaty was a major political achievement. It will become much easier to avoid such arrangements as more states seek admission to the European Community. If eastern European states are admitted, it will simply not be possible to have an arrangement involving representation of states of that size and that sort. The fact remains that my right hon. Friends have seized the opportunity to reach an arrangement that is in the best interests of our country, western Europe and indeed eastern Europe. If we have a fair and free open market in which states that cheat and do not comply can be fined, my constituents will regard that as a major step forward. The European Community is not a state or a super-state but a new kind of political organisation which, along with the Union, has certain supranational features. It is all very well to talk in terms of unions of sovereign states, but the great lesson of the high commands of the first world war—separated between France and ourselves—was that it was vastly superior to have an allied supreme command. NATO is the classic example of a supranational organisation with a supreme allied commander in Europe, co-ordinating and creating an effective organisation to fulfil the wishes of its member states. I believe that the whole purpose of the European Community is not to create some absolute federal state, but to fulfil the interests of our particular nation and to make western Europe, and the rest of Europe, a more prosperous and safer place.
