gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that this House, with the kind indulgence it always shows to a new Member speaking for the first time, will forgive me if I say a few words on first principles. Although for a large number of hon. Members what I say will be elementary and well known, there may also be those in the same situation in which I was in when an inquisitive mind led me to inquire into the processes of banking. I used to regard banks as very useful institutions for safeguarding a man's money and for saving him the trouble of handling large quantities of cash himself. I knew also that they were agencies for large-scale borrowing and lending transactions. I had a subconscious feeling that money was a commodity limited in extent, like potatoes. You either had it or did not have it, and if you did not have it, you certainly could not create it out of thin air. For us private individuals that is only too true, and painfully true sometimes. But I found that in the case of banks the situation was entirely different. Money was a medium of exchange and could easily be created out of nothing. When a bank made a loan, it was not a loan in the ordinary accepted sense of the word, the transferring of purchasing power from one party to another. For the greater part, the money was created in the act of making a loan, and, similarly, when a bank purchased securities, the purchase money was created in the very act of purchase. I realised also that this process of creating money, and, at other times, the converse process of destroying it, is far and away the most important function of our banking system. It is true that there are people who deny that the banking system creates money, and they point to the fact that, if you look at the balance-sheet of any bank, you find deposits on the one side pretty equal to the advances, securities and other assets on the other side. That is true enough, and they say, further, that that shows that the bank is only using the money deposited with   it by its depositors to lend to other people or for other uses. None the less, usually it is the other way round, and the balancing of the balance-sheet is very simply explained, because, when the money is created, obviously, the man into whose hands it comes will deposit it in his banking account. Therefore, a new entry on that side corresponds to the entry on the other side. If we have any doubt whatever in this matter, we have only to consider the vast volume of money which is represented by the total deposits in our banks—vast in proportion to the actual cash in existence—and ask ourselves, if all that money has not been created by the banks, where in the world has it come from? Once we fully realise that the banking system has this great power of creating money, we surely must be impressed with the position which it gives that system—a position, virtually, of dictatorship in the financial and industrial sphere, because it means, in the first place, that the banking system decides at any given time what the volume of purchasing power in the country shall be, and it decides in accordance, naturally, with its own interests, which may or may not always be the interests of the community. It has been pointed out that, during that long period of terrible depression which we went through in the 20's, the banks alone were practically the only type of business which prospered, which surely goes to show that their interests are not always the same as the interests of the community. Further, the banks also obviously have power to decide, in large measure, which undertakings and which branches of industry can go ahead and which must contract their operations. I know, of course, that industry gets its funds to a considerable extent from private investors, but, to a greater extent, it gets its financial resources from the banks, and, in that degree, they are the dictators. I do not want it to be thought for an instant that I am casting any aspersions on bankers or financiers. They are honourable citizens, doing their duty according to their lights, neither better nor worse than the rest of us, but I think it would be miraculous if they always put the interests of the community before their own interests. It would indicate a degree of saintliness in their case which I do not think they would actually claim  or which any of us would grant them if they did claim it. It is not their fault if their interests run counter to the interests of the community. It is our fault for letting the system continue which puts them in that position—a system which places millions of ordinary citizens in the hands of a few people responsible, virtually, to no one but themselves, although I know that an hon. Member opposite did claim that it was the shareholders who told them what to do. I doubt myself whether that hon. Member was innocent enough to think that that really represented the position. This is a system which places these citizens at the mercy of these few private men carrying out operations which these citizens hardly understand at all and over which they have no control whatsoever, and, further, operations which, at one time, may plunge numbers of these citizens into the misery of short time and low wages, and, at other times, into the greater misery of rotting in enforced idleness. We have got to change that system. The Chancellor has told us that the method of choosing Governors of the Bank of England needed to be replaced by one that is more intelligent and more dignified. I would go further and say that it needs to be replaced by a system which is democratic and which enables the ordinary man, through his representatives, to control who is going to be Governor, and who are to be part of the management, of the Bank of England. No industry has suffered more under the vicissitudes which I have been describing than agriculture, the one with which my constituency in West Suffolk is principally concerned, and I may say that people in that industry are beginning to realise it. The farm workers are giving very sensible and practical expression to their realisation, and did so, in the recent General Election, by supporting Labour's policy. The farmers, as a body, have not yet got quite so far, but they did do a rather remarkable thing in my constituency, where a large number of them sponsored for a time an Independent candidate, who was not himself an agriculturist at all. He was a technician and a great student of economics, and his study of economics had led him to believe whole heartedly in this very step we are considering to-day—the nationalisation of the Bank of England and putting finance   fully under the control of the nation—although, apart from that, he was still a capitalist. I hope that, in time, the farmers will progress still further and realise that the Labour Party is agriculture's best friend. Coming back to the Bill, I have spoken of the banking system so far as if it was one unit. So, in a sense, it is, but we know also that it is a two-storeyed edifice. On the upper storey comes the bankers'bank—the Bank of England, which controls, under the limits of the note issue, the total quantity of credit which will be available at any time. In the lower storey come the joint stock banks, with which we ordinary mortals have dealings, and which, subject to the demands imposed by the central bank, can create and destroy money and also decide who is to get the money. I must confess, for my part, that I was disappointed when I saw that pleasant pamphlet which the Chancellor showed us just now, and found that it was only proposed to nationalise the top storey. I would have preferred to nationalise the whole system straight away, and that for two reasons. First, I think all experience shows that you can control a thing far better if it belongs to you than if it belongs to someone else. Secondly, we know that the banks, by charging interest on all the money that they create, levy a heavy toll on the community, and I cannot really see why that toll should go into private hands. Still, there are those provisions in the Bill which give the central bank the power to request information from the joint stock banks, to make recommendations to them and to give directions to them, and I am very glad that they are there. The Chancellor has also told us that if they are not sufficient he can take other radical measures later on. I wondered whether the right hon. Gentleman who represents the Scottish Universities (Sir J. Anderson) was, in a way, my ally in wishing to nationalise the joint stock banks, because he spoke of the difficulties the directors of those banks might have in discharging their responsibilities as trustees. Perhaps he feels it would be far better if they were relieved altogether of those responsibilities by having the banks taken over entirely by the nation. In conclusion, I welcome this Bill. We welcome it on this side. I would not  agree with the hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. C. Davies) in saying that no question of principle is involved; I think a very important question of principle is involved. I think this is our first step towards the Socialist Commonwealth, the first step towards an ordered economy, organising our resources for the benefit of the community in place of the present chaotic, wasteful and unjust muddle. I think it is the first step towards giving us the same liberty and democracy in the economic sphere which we already enjoy in the political sphere, and it takes place at the strategic key point of the whole economic system because, after all, money is the life-blood of that system. If the supply of the life-blood is not adequate, the system will be anaemic and depressed; if it does not circulate properly to every part, then those parts that are neglected will become gangrenous and diseased. This Bill, when it becomes law, will enable the representatives of the nation to ensure that the supply of money is always adequate to the national needs. I look forward to a series of Measures in the months and years to come which will ensure in every part of our economic system that money will be used in the best and fullest way.
