gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My first act as a new Member of this Parliament is to pay tribute to those who worked so hard to send me to this place—with a large majority, despite the continuous misrepresentation of Labour party policies in the media. I shall bow to the convention of the House that the maiden speech of a new Member must be uncontroversial and will save for a later date some of the remarks that I wish to make to Conservative Members about the economic and social destruction that is taking place in my  constituency. I am pleased to have caught your eye so early in my career, Mr. Speaker, and I hope that I shall catch it regularly in future. My constituency comprises two former constituencies. One is Chester-le-Street, and its former Member is now the hon. Member for Durham, North (Mr. Radice). He is capable of proving himself in this House without my saying anything about him. The second constituency of Houghton-le-Spring was represented in this House by Tom Urwin, and I wish to say a few words about him. He devoted his life to the Labour movement and spent almost 20 years in this place. He was a full-time official of the Union of Construction and Allied Trades Technicians and was active in local government which he served between 1949 and 1965. In 1968–69 he was a Minister at the Department of Economic Affairs and in 1969–70 he was Minister with responsibility for the north—a position since abandoned but one that I hope will be reinstated. From 1973 he served on the Council of Europe, and from 1976 was the leader of the delegation and later chairman of the Socialist group and chairman of the political affairs committee. We know that he would have become the president of the Council had he continued to attend it. I believe that Tom Urwin would best like to be remembered as a constituency Member of Parliament who served his people well. During my work on the doorsteps, in the clubs and in the factories, I heard nothing but praise for the way that he served his constituents. I regret that he has not been in the House during 1983 because of illness, but he is recovering and will soon be returned to health. I know that I shall speak on behalf of all hon. Members if I take a message back from the House offering him its good wishes. My constituency is divided into two parts, one of which is a new town that is establishing its cultural standards. I have lived in a new town for 20 years and I am aware of the problems, challenges and aspirations of those who live there. The other part is a mining area with well-established traditions and culture. In any constituency the most important feature is its people. Our people are strong, humorous, hard-working, skilled and principled. I want to say a few words about those who paved the way for the formation of the new constituency. From their skills, brains, abilities, bravery and sacrifices, the people of my constituency have provided the ships needed by the nation, the coal—our major energy source — the iron and steel needed by industry and also many of the great names in heavy engineering in the north-east. As many hon. Members will know, the people working in those industries must often tolerate bad working conditions. I illustrate this point by reference to the coal industry. Two pits are left in my constituency, although many people work in pits in other constituencies. I should like to pay tribute to those who, day after day, go down into the bowels of the earth to get the coal for us. The sacrifices that they have made on our behalf can be counted by a visit to the churchyard. I am neither poet nor a good reader of poetry, but I should like to read two or three lines from a poem by Alex Glasgow called ""Close the Coal House Door"" which seems to express better than I could the problems faced and the sacrifices made by those people. The second verse of the poem reads; Close the coal house door lad, there's bones inside Mangled splintered piles of bones   Buried 'neath a mile of stones Not a soul to hear the groans Close the coal house door lad, there's bones inside. I am conscious of what people did to carve out my constituency. I realise that it is a great privilege and a responsibility, with many duties, to serve those people. I could have illustrated the point by reference to other industries — to the people who build ships who are called on in times of war to protect these islands, using skills which have been passed front father to son to produce effectively and efficiently the things that we needed. As we faced the present and the change in demand, the men and women of my constituency, especially in the new town, responded by learning new skills. They are highly skilled and adaptable, and we got what we would expect from such people. I return to the present. The sacrifices made by those people— some made the ultimate sacrifice— seem to have been forgotten. The Conservative Government, from 1979 to 1983, implemented policies which disregarded completely what they had done. Sine May 1979 tens of thousands of these highly skilled, principled people have been thrown on to the dole queues. Even including the doctored figures produced by the Government, in the Tyne and Wear area, 100,000 people are cut of work. Before anyone says ""It's their own fault. Are they not trying to find jobs?"", I should point out that there are 2,000 job vacancies. It is a simple calculation to work out the magnitude of the problem facing each of those people when trying to find work. My constituency is one of the three forming the borough of Sunderland and contains the great shipbuilding area of the Wear. Now 29,000 people in that area are out of work. Those are the official figures which have been adjusted by the Government to keep them lower than they are. One in four males in the area and one in four males in my constituency are without work. One in six women —as we know, many women do not register—are also out of work. This is not a small blackspot. The area of the north of England that I represent is in a massive blackspot, with 300,000 people unemployed. The sacrifices of the past appear to mean nothing in the present. The reward for those sacrifices is the words ""scrap heap"". During my election campaign, I found that, at every door on which I knocked, someone in the family had been affected by unemployment. The saddest thing of all was when I knocked on a door to ask ""Are you working?"" and the answer was ""Yes, but I do not know for how long."" That is the atmosphere one finds in the north-east of England. The new town and the old area of my constituency have one thing in common—unemployment. That is why I shall join my colleagues, whether they are in the local authority or in the trade union movement, Members of Parliament or individuals in the work force, to resist further cuts in any industry, particularly those threatened in shipbuilding and coal mining. We cannot afford in the north-east to lose another single job. We have paid the heaviest price for the Government's policies. Our new slogan must be ""Enough is Enough"". I should like to comment on two matters—one an omission from and the other an inclusion in the Gracious Speech. There was no mention of a north of England development agency. The local authorities, the trade unions and the Labour movement were united in demanding such an organisation and I am certain that, had we won the election, one would have been created. We  want a say in our destiny. We want to be able to solve some of our own problems. We have had too much suffering from the economic and social consequences of unemployment. That is why we must resist further redundancies in our area. Our people realise that no longer can they afford to be seduced by redundancy pay, because the problem affects not only them but will confront their children and grandchildren in the future. I will mention only briefly the inclusion to which I referred, as my right hon. Friend the Member for Salford, East (Mr. Orme) and my hon. Friend the Member for Blaydon (Mr. McWilliam) will deal with it in greater detail. Many of my constituents work at the royal ordnance factory at Birtley, which employs more than 1,500 people, and which is now, according to the Gracious Speech, under threat. The Mallabar report of 1971 concluded that the royal ordnance factories should remain publicly owned because they are profitable despite not being able to refuse work even when it is clearly unprofitable. It is estimated that, since 1974, the royal ordnance factories have made more than £140 million. Is it not true that costs will rise if our royal ordnance factories are privatised? Is it riot true that, in crisis, the nation could be faced with a refusal to supply materials essential for its defences unless a high financial price is paid—in other words, that we would be subjected to financial blackmail. Is it not true that we would be allowing private individuals to get hold of the country's most vital military secrets? Because of jobs, blackmail, secrets and the knock-on effects, privatisation is not the answer. I described the people of my constituency as tacking hope and experiencing despair. We want to give them hope. I only hope that I hear from the Conservative. Benches something different from what has happened in the past. I conclude with a few words that to me summarise the ultimate tragedy. During canvassing I called on someone I knew whose son had gone to join the foreign legion, so desperate was he about finding a job. He left behind some words—I do not know whether he wrote them or picked them up—which are as follows: Deep despair, flooding in. No future, no prospects. Life in a void, going down. Time ticks on, you remain in Limbo. A thousand questions, but no one listens, You don't work, you don't matter. One more rejection, one year older. You try to cry, no words, Just the silent scream of despair. In this and in future weeks I hope to hear something which suggests to my constituents that there is more than despair — there is some hope. When I heard the Gracious Speech, it appeared to me to be much of a muchness and more of what we have had in the past. My constituents will find that unacceptable.
