gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me to make my maiden speech as part of what I have found to be an interesting and stimulating debate. I should like to thank also the electors of Bristol, North-West for electing me as their Member, and to say one or two things about the constituency. Bristol, North-West cannot, of course, be divorced from the city of Bristol. Bristol has always had a balanced economy, but fears are now being expressed that it is becoming more and more a commercial and administrative centre and that the opportunities in engineering and other manufacturing industries are becoming less and less. The two main industries in my constituency are docks and aerospace, and I shall refer to them in some depth in a moment. I should also like to mention my predecessor, Mr. Martin McLaren, who, although not of the same political persuasion as myself, was held in high regard in the constituency and was well known for his compassion and kindliness. I understand that it is a convention of the House that in a maiden speech one should be uncontroversial and neutral. I   was once advised that the only neutral people are the dead, and I feel that what I have to say will show that I feel very much alive. First, I welcome that part of the Queen's Speech which says that the Government will publish proposals to ensure comprehensive safeguards for employment in the docks. The worst features of the casual system have been removed, but there is still the need to strengthen the National Dock Labour Board and continually to examine and extend the definition of what constitutes dock work. I regret that the Gracious Speech does not include proposals for the public ownership of the docks industry. In my experience, the present fragmented system means that private stevedoring and shipping companies are able to make demands almost like a form of blackmail, which sets one group of dockers against another. Docks are an integral part of the overall transport system of this country, and there is a real need for national integration and national planning of future development. That can be achieved only under public ownership. I welcome also the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take the aircraft industry into public ownership. This is a proposal which commands the support of a majority of the aircraft workers in Bristol, for a number of reasons. First, they cite the amount of public money injected into the industry and the lack of public accountability for that money. I appreciate that other hon. Members have given details of the amount of money involved, but I hope the House will forgive me if I repeat some of the statistics. It is generally accepted that over recent years hundreds of millions of pounds of public funds have been injected into the aircraft industry by way of launching aid, research and development and the procurement of military and civil aircraft. In the past 10 years the BAC has received more than £200 million and Rolls-Royce more than £300 million of public financial assistance. As well as being the aerospace industry's largest customer, by purchasing approximately two-thirds of its output,  the Government have assisted the industry in a number of other ways. For example, development and experimental work under Government contracts in 1973 was almost £150 million. In essence, the bulk of the financial backing for the aerospace industry comes ultimately from public funds. The heavy cost of developing new and more sophisticated projects will depend on constant public financial support, but what is seen to be lacking is public accountability. Secondly, rightly or wrongly, there is a fear among aerospace workers that the industry will come under foreign domination and control. It is a threat that they see at three levels. The first is in the demands from many quarters that there ought to be some kind of privately-owned integrated European aerospace industry. The second is in their belief that the Opposition were prepared to sell the engine division of Rolls-Royce to one of the giant American companies, such as Pratt and Witney. Thirdly, there is the fear that the industry will enter into all kinds of arrangements and joint developments with foreign firms which are seemingly subject to no kind of public control. This is not to say that they are against those arrangements per se, but there is the belief among aerospace workers that many of these joint ventures have been hastily conceived and motivated by short-term profit-searching at the expense of the long-term future of the industry. Fourthly, those who work in the industry insist that in the past there has been wasteful duplication of research, development and production which has inflated the costs of units produced. At the same time, the industry has technological expertise and creativity which has been continually thwarted by inept business decision-making. Often this has meant that technological innovations developed in Britain, backed by public funds, have been more or less handed on a plate to be exploited and become profit creators for private national and multi-national companies. In essence, private ownership of the aerospace industry has failed to create an environment which challenges and develops the full potential of the considerable skill it employs. Workers are seen simply as a factor of production, to be utilised as part of   some remote decision-making process. The numerous projects which have been partially developed and then cancelled in the past two decades have sent periodic waves of optimism and pessimism over the industry, matched by redundant aircraft workers being used more or less as an economic regulator, to be laid off and then taken on again as decisions were, seemingly, gropingly made. Few industries have been subject to so many inquiries, reports, debate and the pontification of so many experts. All of these have failed to create a sense of security for those who work in the aerospace industry. There is a rapidly-growing potential market for aerospace products. It is estimated that by the 1980s the value of markets for civil and military aviation in the Western world is likely to exceed £6,000 million, about a third of which could arise in Europe. While the exports of the United Kingdom aerospace products are impressive, there has been a considerable decline in our share of world sales of civil aircraft. In my judgment, public ownership of a nationally integrated aerospace industry will provide the centralised and planned demand forecasting and marketing which is absolutely essential. It will end the wasteful duplication of research and development. It will ensure that public expenditure is subject to public accountability. I believe it will give to those who work in the industry a sense of security of employment which private ownership has failed to do. I also wish to raise three issues which are of some considerable concern to many Bristol aerospace workers. In my discussions with them over a number of years I have found that they believe that there is a need for a nationally integrated aerospace industry. This must include not only BAC and Hawker-Siddeley Aviation but also Rolls-Royce and Short Brothers and other aerospace companies. They see a case, rightly, in my view, for seriously examining the inclusion, in whole or in part, of a number of the many companies or subsidiaries which are involved in supplying components for final assembly by the major constructors of finished aircraft. Secondly, a publicly-owned aerospace industry must be completely free to exploit the market potential for new products and materials, and so on, arising out  of research and development and the technological fall-out of which the industry can rightly be proud. Thirdly—I believe this to be crucial—while the majority of workers in Bristol support public ownership of their industry, they want to see a form of public ownership different from what we have had in the past. They have set down their proposals, which seek an injection of industrial democracy. This is not the kind of wishy-washy window-dressing form of joint consultation advocated in certain quarters—not the sort of wishy-washy joint consultation which in much of British industry means one hour a week arguing about the state of the canteen tea, the toilets, or the car park. It is not the kind of joint consultation which means that employers tell workers what to do. Nor is it the kind of joint consultation which insists finally that the fundamental decisions affecting the lives of working people cannot be jointly resolved because they fall under the heading of so-called managerial prerogative, to be unilaterally decided by the employers. The Secretary of State today said that the Government will be looking seriously at the whole question of industrial democracy. I very much hope that this House will be given an early opportunity to discuss the whole question of worker involvement in decision making. If, from these benches, I can make the smallest contribution which pushes forward the frontiers of industrial democracy, I shall be well pleased.
