gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise as the newly elected Member of Parliament for the Caerphilly   constituency. It is a constituency that has a proud tradition. It includes not only the town of Caerphilly, which right hon. and hon. Members will recognise for its cheese and its castle, but substantial parts of the Rhymney valley, which has struggled painfully in the transition from dependence on the basic industries of coal, steel, transport and associated industries to a more varied economic base. The constituency was represented in the House loyally, and with distinction, by Ness Edwards, who was Member from 1945 until his untimely death in 1968, and by Fred Evans who was Member from 1968 until his retirement in 1979. I hope to be able to restore and maintain that tradition of loyal service. I wish to take this opportunity to give my thanks to the loyal members of the Labour party in the Caerphilly constituency and also to the constituents of Caerphilly who elected me with a resounding majority to represent them in the House. I listened with interest—but not much hope—to the Gracious Speech. I was looking for some sign that the Government recognised the scale of disaster that their policies were bringing to vast areas of the country. I shall quote selectively from the Gracious Speech. It said: My Government will pursue policies designed to increase economic prosperity and to reduce unemployment. There appears to be an underlying assumption that the policies followed by the Government since 1979 have been successful. That is a platitude and an assumption that I challenge. My constituency of Caerphilly has an unemployment rate of 13·6 per cent. In May 1980, the unemployment rate in Caerphilly was 7·8 per cent. and at the Bargoed employment exchange in the north of my constituency it was 12·6 per cent. It is now 19 per cent. there. Indeed, 23 per cent. of our adult male workers are now unemployed. That means that 7.000 people over the age of 18 are without work in one valley and art deprived of the prospect of work as a result of this Government's policies. In addition 1,000 young people are unemployed and a further 1,000 young people are participating in temporary Government schemes. That means that 2,000 young people are deprived of the opportunity that real employment would bring to them in the prime of their lives. That is a tragedy for our valley. It is a tragedy that the Government neither appear to recognise the problem nor are prepared to take action. In my constituency 1,696 people are waiting for council accommodation. The local authority has a housing allocation of £2·4 million. If the housing needs of the valley are to be met, that allocation should be increased fourfold. The local authority should be constructing over 400 houses per year. Currently it is constructing fewer than 100 a year. That is a condemnation of this Government. It is a condemnation of those right hon. and hon. Members who claim that the country's economic prosperity can be built on people without homes. Yesterday the Prime Minister said thnt it would cost £50 million to construct a district hospital and to run it for three years. One of the first letters that I received after I was elected was from the joint community health council of Mid Glamorgan and Gwent. In a brief it states: In 1966 the Government published the Hospital Building Programme (Command Paper 3000) detailing the developments needed to provide a network of hospital and specialist services. These developments have been funded by the Government centrally (both in terms of capital investment and recurring revenue costs). This system is to be changed in Wales and those schemes not already completed or in progress by I April 1984  (8 out of the original 39) will have to be financed (both in capital and revenue terms) by individual Health Authorities out of their annual financial allocations. These allocations will be increased slightly because capital developments will no longer he financed from central funds but a considerable proportion of the saving is likely to be used for other centrally funded services rather than distributed to individual Health Authorities. The likelihood is that the Health Authorities concerned will find it extremely difficult to finance outstanding developments and that many of them will not in fact take place—at least for the foreseeable future. If the Health Authorities were to allocate sufficient capital and revenue funds for these projects, it would inevitably be at the expense of services provided in other parts of the counties concerned. Mid Glamorgan and Gwent are the two most populous counties in Wales and between them include most of the industrial valleys. They have particularly acute housing and other environmental and economic problems which lead to high morbidity patterns. The NHS is already under severe strain in these two counties. One important indicator is the time a patient has to wait to see a consultant or to secure admission to hospital for in-patient treatment. The statistics speak for themselves. I stress them in terms of Mid Glamorgan and Gwent as a percentage of the all-Wales figure. The total population in Mid Glamorgan and Gwent is 36·4 per cent. of that of Wales as a whole. Patients requiring urgent in-patient admission total 43·5 per cent. of the total all-Wales figure. Patients requiring non-urgent in-patient admission who have to wait more than 12 months total 51·7 per cent. of the Welsh total. The Government have made clear their determination to restrict expenditure on the National Health Service. I, with the population of my area and the community health councils there, maintain that we have a critical need. The population of the valley is 140,000, represented by myself, my hon. Friend the Member for Islwyn (Mr. Kinnock) and my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) who have supported the campaign by the health councils for a new district general hospital. There is a case to be answered on medical grounds. There is a case on economic and social grounds. Right hon. and hon. Members on the Government Benches will argue that caring does not make economic sense; that expenditure on health care, on housing and on the creation of employment opportunities in our valley is bad for the country. The message that I bring to the House from the Rhymney valley and from my constituency is that unless we have public sector expenditure, and unless the Government attack our housing problem, our unemployment problems and our need for a new hospital. there is no hope. My message is that caring makes economic sense. I do not look to Government Members for support. I do not even look to them for a change of hears. My message is that their policies will be opposed. They will be opposed in debate and in the votes. The argument will be won by us, although the vote may be lost. The argument will be carried from the Chamber. The argument for democratic Socialism will be carried from the House to victory.
