gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I congratulate the hon. Member for Fareham (Mr. Lloyd) on a very able speech. I am sure that we shall hear more from him in future. At the same time, I am sure that most hon. Members, having heard my name called, are rather disappointed. I am the Scottish Ron Brown. The other Ron Brown—my hon. Friend the hon. Member for Hackney, South and Shoreditch (Mr. Brown)—is rather tall, elegant and debonair. At least, that is what he tells me, so I accept it. Having the same name creates some problems. Indeed, some of my colleagues in the Labour Party and the press have suggested that I should change my name, but that is extremely difficult. One wag suggested to the other Ron Brown, that he could perhaps hyphenate his name, and I understand that it is perhaps almost a custom in the Brown family. However, I think that the other Ron Brown was wise enough to ignore that advice. What's in a name, anyway? It is also interesting to note that I replace another Ron—Ronnie King Murray. He served my constituency as its Member from 1970 until the last general election and was Lord Advocate in the Labour Government. He told me ""When you are in the House, give my regards to my friends"", and I am doing so. Mr. King Murray has a new job. He has been called to the Bar, but hon. Members need not rush out thinking that it is Annie's Bar—he is not buying a   round. Ronald King Murray is now a judge in Scotland, and I am sure that he will do very well in that position. My constituency is referred to as Edinburgh, Leith, but that is a misnomer. Leith is Leith, as my constituents will tell you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. There are good reasons for that, because it has suffered over the years. Indeed, there was a constant fight for independence. Leithers were extremely proud when independence was achieved in the nineteenth century because they fought against feudalism to get it. But in 1920 Leith was merged with Edinburgh, against the wishes of the vast majority of the people of Leith. The House will understand, therefore, that there is a particular type of feeling in my constituency and how that feeling has developed in a certain way, because there is real anger at the treatment of Leith by successive Edinburgh city councils. Hon. Members need only go to Leith to see what I mean—it is run down and neglected. Obviously, it is part of my job here to try to reverse that process. I appreciate that there is a tradition not to say anything controversial in a maiden speech in this House. Whether that is true or not, I find it hard to contain my feelings, particularly as the Government have declared class war on the country, which means that living standards are under attack in order to boost profits. The Government's proposals will undoubtedly lead to confrontation. They are simply a recipe for turning moderates into militants. Perhaps the Government do not see that. Perhaps they and their supporters in this House are so naive that they cannot appreciate that certain things are going to happen. The Government have no mandate to do what they like, and certainly not in industrial Scotland. I am here with an increased majority from Leith, and many other Scottish Labour Members are here with increased majorities, because the Scottish working class knew what would happen under a Conservative Government. Tory policies will hit all parts of the United Kingdom, and they will certainly hit Leith. The nationalised industries have a special role to play in the economy, but  the Tory philosophy is entirely different. That means that there is a direct threat, for example, to shipyards like Robb Caledon Shipbuilders Limited in my constituency, with 700 jobs involved—only 700, but they are important. There are another 2,000 jobs in the local economy, again jobs which are extremely important because we have many small companies producing goods and services in the area which depend on shipbuilding. I must be clear: I do not like 1930s-style government. My constituency Labour Party does not like this Government and has told me bluntly that in the event of public assets being sold off by the Conservatives and then being taken back into public ownership by a future Labour Government, there should be no compensation for the renationalisation. I agree with that point of view, and I am sure that it will get increased support throughout the Labour movement. The unions, too, are ready to fight—there is no doubt about that. I speak as an ex-convener of shop stewards, and I know the feeling on the shop floor at the present time. That feeling will get a lot worse. Those on the shop floor will make it fairly hot for the Tory Government, which will have to face up to reality. The reality is in the world outside. It is not here. We all have to face up to that situation. The Government will obviously learn the hard way. That is the lesson of history. It has been seen so often and yet the same mistakes are made. If there is a lesson of history for the Tory Party, there is also a lesson for the Labour Party. It is not enough to oppose the Tories in this House. Our leadership has to rally the working class in constituencies up and down the country and defend basic rights. That is a job I am ready to tackle in my capacity as a trade unionist and a Member of Parliament. I am sure that my colleagues here tonight agree with that view. After all, the Socialist way is the better way. That is one of the points that has to be made clear. If the Labour Party is to give a lead in this country, we have to get back to basic principles.
