gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Before I came to the House I was informed that many hon. Members on rising to address the House for the first time feel a strong sense of their inabilities as compared with what they feel when speaking outside the House. That I know at this very moment to be true. At the same time, I am not unmindful that the House can be very sympathetic towards hon. Members who are speaking for the first time. I trust that that will be the case now. I have the honour of representing Carlisle, the last great city this side of the Border on the North-West, a city with a friendly people and, at the same time, a city with its problems and also its anxieties. During the past few years a number of small firms and businesses in my constituency have been merged or taken over, resulting in pockets of redundancy. I therefore welcome the statement in the Queen's Speech that action will be taken for the retaining of workers who lose their employment as a result of takeovers or who are changing their employment. I hope that when the Government are giving consideration to the resiting of new industries Carlisle, and indeed Cumberland, will not be overlooked. The scars of the Beeching plan are now leaving their trail. My constituency, as most hon. Members will know, is an important railway centre and railwaymen of all grades are quite naturally asking questions concerning the future of the railway industry under the new Government. It is a pleasing fact that at long last a progressive transport policy will now be pursued. That in itself will, I hope, at least ease the minds of our transport workers, both road and rail. The railways in particular can at least glean that at long last they will not be treated in isolation from other forms of transport. The statement presented to the House today will be welcomed by both management and men in the railway service and I particularly welcome the decision to keep the line open from my constituency of Carlisle down to Hellifield. My constituency, like most others, has its human problems. Compared with past years our young people are somewhat better off, for which we must all be grateful. At the same time, our old folk have become poorer. The decision of Her Majesty's Government to act immediately to help the aged population is a humane step, a long-overdue one and one which will be of great assistance to the aged, many of whom are now in dire need. I only hope that even in this scientific and materialistic age we will give our old folk a greater degree of security than has been the case of late. We have a proud record in the city I represent for the building of council houses. Carlisle is the proud possessor of about 10,000 such homes and I pay tribute to the city council for this achievement. Nevertheless, I regret to say that despite all the houses which have been built, we still have a very long waiting list. It is a pleasing feature to know that housing authorities are now to be encouraged to step up their housing programmes and this will be welcomed in all quarters. I thank the House for its tolerance and kindness to me today and, while not wishing to be classed as a controversialist so soon in my Parliamentary life, I respectfully suggest that the new Government, of which I am glad to be a member, is enterprising, frank and courageous, like the man who … buckled right in with a trace of a grin on his face if he worried, he hid it. He started to sing, as he tackled the thing that couldn't be done, and he did it.
