gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am extremely glad to have caught your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and been given the opportunity of addressing the House. I congratulate the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Needham) on his maiden speech. I am in an invidious position, because in my maiden speech I shall not be able to   compete with the hon. Gentleman's eloquence. I represent Newham, North-East. I do not like the new terms that have resulted from local government reorganisation, so I shall say that my constituency is in what in the old days we called the county borough of East Ham. Despite what I read in the press, I found after my selection that the Labour Party in my constituency was in very good morale and spirit. We fought a good election campaign—I am told that it was the best in living memory—and as a result I can claim to come to the House as a Labour gain. Certainly, the constituency remained loyal to Labour, and we—note that I do not say ""I""—got well over 600 more Labour votes than at the previous election in 1974. My constituency is an area of East London. In many ways its prosperity is linked with the general prosperity of the country. It has a large Asian population. I was there over the weekend and attended two Asian temples. Community relations are good—that is splendid—and I see it as one of my principal tasks to maintain that situation. I was brought up and went to school in the neighbouring borough of Barking. In those days we looked at East Ham as a very desirable area. It was rather up-market; in many ways it still is. But I have discovered that there is a growing feeling in the area that it is not getting the attention that it deserves. People there see a great contrast between the East End and the West End. Constituents of mine who venture into the West End tell me that they see people spending more money on one meal in a restaurant there than they themselves earn in a whole week working in East London. They also tell me that industry is moving out of East London. There are two other constituencies in the London borough of Newham. The employment opportunities in the borough are diminishing—in the last 15 years at an alarming degree. Since 1966 the number of local jobs has fallen by 24 per cent. and 120 local firms have shut down. These are net figures and discount new jobs which have been created. Since 1966 the size of the resident labour force has declined by 16½ per cent. As a result there is now increasing commuting outside the borough, and half of Newham's working residents are employed outside the borough. One financial symptom of this situation is that the industrial component of the borough's rateable value has fallen in 10 years from 26 per cent. to only 16 per cent. It was an area in which the docks played a very great role. In Newham manufacturing and commercial activities associated with the docks once constituted the traditional basis of employment, and in 1966 more than half the local jobs were provided in that way. But the decline of the docks has had inevitably serious consequences. The London docks, once perhaps the busiest in the world, are so no longer, but their site presents an exciting challenge. London's dockland, probably one of the largest areas of vacant urban land in Europe, offers a challenge and opportunity. Attractive housing, particularly suitable industry, adequate transport facilities and the provision of recreational and cultural facilities are all necessary, and, if we provide the money and if we have the will, dockland provides an opportunity to regenerate East London. That is what my constituents want. That is one of the messages I bring here. However, they see little tangible sign of it at the moment. I mention only one tangible thing to illustrate the situation. It concerns what some people consider to be the decline of what is known as the Barking to Kentish Town railway. I have seen the correspondence. On this line, trains are quite often cut out—for example, the 1805 is cut out regularly. That means that commuters have to wait for 14 hours. They wait in vandalised waiting rooms. When they complain to the managers, they are told ""The rolling stock is old-fashioned; it is out of date and does not work, and we cannot get guards""—presumably because they cannot pay the money. ""All this is because of the national economic situation."" So that is one way in which the national economic situation affects the people of Newham. I now come to the Budget and our economic decline. How are we to arrest and reverse the decline of British industry and its lack of competition? This is a complex and intractable question. The   decline has been happening over a long period. I take the view that Britain was exhausted during the war. We carried an unfair defence burden after the war by seeing it as our duty to police the Indian Ocean, the China Sea, the Persian Gulf and the Caribbean and to keep bases in Aden, Singapore and Cyprus. We also put our research and development, which is important for industry, into defence. We created Blue Streak, TSR2 and nuclear weapons and told the Germans and Japanese that we would not allow them to do the same. The Germans and Japanese, therefore, put their research and development into other projects. We were the first industrial nation in the world, and a lot of our equipment is old-fashioned. There are many complex reasons why British industry is less competitive. The question is how to remedy the situation. That is how we must look at the right hon. and learned Gentleman's Budget. The right hon. and learned Gentleman seems to think that the answer is tax reductions. To my constituents, they are tax switches. There is no real tax reduction. Most will go to those who are well off. The right hon. and learned Gentleman seems to believe that this act of putting more money into the pockets of the well-off will galvanise and dynamise them. Somehow, they are expected to act differently. I am not sure how. Are the Government saying that they will get up earlier in the morning, that they will shave quicker, that they will have brighter eyes, get to their offices earlier and work harder? I do not believe it. The Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who is not present, does not believe it. He believes that tax cuts are good in themselves. He thinks that their recipients may go on the golf course. When taxation in this country was at its lowest in the 1920s and the 1930s, unemployment was at its highest. In my living memory, the right hon. Member for Sidcup (Mr. Heath) tried the same medicine. Those were the days of the Selsdon Park policies when the noble Lord, Lord Barber, put money into the pockets of these people. What did they do with it? They put it into land. They put it into housing. They shovelled it abroad where  it helped our competitors. If they want to put it into housing now, they need not put it into British housing. They can spend £100,000 putting it into houses in Spain. We gave the money to the entrepreneurs but the entrepreneurs did not do any entrepreneuring. Our entrepreneurs have let us down. The trouble with British private enterprise is that it is not very private. It keeps coming to the Government for money. It is also not very enterprising. I am sorry to say that the Budget will not work. It is a triumph of hope over experience. It has been called a gamble. The policies have been tried before. In what other way can we galvanise the British economy? We have tried incomes policies. There might be a wages policy again soon. We have experienced more wages and incomes policies than any other country in the West. They do not seem to have helped us much. The TUC agreed to wage restraint for years under the last Government. The trade unions were patriotic and altruistic. However, a permanent, rigid Government control of wages in our society cannot be a permanent way of industrial life. It gave a breathing space out of patriotism. What was done with it? The problem cannot be solved by incomes policies alone. How are we to solve our problems? There was another answer years ago about which we hear little today. It was called the Common Market. This is a maiden speech, and I must not be controversial. I shall be completely uncontroversial. Our membership of the Common Market has been a complete failure. When I went round my constituency knocking on doors, I found not one person who showed any love, affection or enthusiasm for the Common Market. Perhaps Conservative candidates found numerous people cheering in the streets for the Common Market. But the number of people who voted in the European election shows that there was not antipathy but hostility. We have not benefited from the EEC. It has proved highly disadvantageous. On prices, jobs, the trade balance and democratic self-government, the Common Market is bad news. It has exacerbated our difficulties. The crazy farm   policy is costing us more than £1 billion a year. I understand that the Conservatives are opposed to subsidies to British men and women. But because of what we pay in support for dairy products, we are subsidising every cow in the Common Market by £100 a year. Most of those cows are German or French. The Common Market is making us pay more to eat less, lowering our living standards and burdening our balance of payments. It is absurd that the largest food importer in the world should link its purchases to the highest cost market. We have been trying to reform the Common Market for five or six years, but we have achieved not a single reform. Surely we should impose a time limit. We should say that unless changes are made, we shall impose a ceiling on the taxes that we pay. Without Britain, without the second stomach to the Common Market taking their surpluses, and without our taxes, the common agricultural policy would collapse tomorrow. The method of financing the Community budget is hopelessly tilted against us, with our payments spiralling out of control. Official figures say that in 1982 we shall be paying 32 per cent. of the budget with only 16 per cent. GDP. That is intolerable. No Government will be able to afford that. The Chancellor knows that unless the rules are changed by 1982, we shall be subsidising the rich nations of Western Europe by more money than we receive from North Sea oil. Who will be prepared to support that? Certainly not the Prime Minister. Whichever Government we have will disagree with that. But it is not only that. We knew that there would be increased costs on food, though we did not know they would be so high. We knew that there would be costs incolved in the Community budget. My right hon. Friend the Member for Battersea, North (Mr. Jay) used to give figures. He always had it wrong because he underestimated the figures. Though we knew that there would be costs, we were told that the whole case for entry was that the huge, dynamic benefits to British industry from the ""larger market"" would outweigh those costs. We were told that the large surplus  of trade would compensate us for these other burdens. The opposite has happened. From being in rough balance, we now have a deficit of some £2½ billion every year. The simple truth is that since 1973 the Common Market has inflicted upon us a staggering trade deficit of over £12 billion. This trade deficit has been reflected in unemployment. Surely it is clear that if one switches purchases from British factories to Continental factories it must mean a loss of jobs in this country. So, we are paying the price of being in the EEC not only in higher food prices but in lengthening dole queues. Our unemployment rate is now twice as high as when we joined the EEC. Instead of the investment boom which we were promised, for every £1 that is coming into this country from the Continent £8 is flowing out. Britain's future as an industrial nation is being jeopardised under this arrangement and, if this trend continues, we shall become an impoverished offshore dependency of the Continent. Our people will, increasingly, be put on the dole or driven abroad to the Continent to seek work. That is already happening. Our manufactured goods will be supplied from abroad, and they will all be paid for by North Sea oil. What happens when that oil has run out after two decades? I am not claiming that all our problems have been caused by the Common Market and nobody else would claim that. I am saying that it has not been the miracle cure it was claimed to be and that it is preventing us taking many of the steps we should have been taking to cure our malaise. The Common Market is the opposite of what this country needs. It gives us rigid protection for food, and it gives us unrestricted free trade for manufactured goods. What British interests need is the complete opposite. In that sense the Common Market is anti-British, and I do not believe that there is anyone in this House who believes any longer, that our problems of unemployment, balance of payments, low investment, low growth and the export of capital are to be found in the dated texts of the Treaty of Rome. We need new policies of public investment and the planning of trade. I have taken too long to come to my last remark, but this is my message tonight. We must control excessive imports. At the moment, the heart of British industry is being ripped out. There is no time to examine why British industry is less efficient, but every day we read in the press the depressing news of factory closure after factory closure and shipyard closures as well. Most of our cars, motor cycles, radio sets, tape recorders, television sets and even cutlery are imported. There is increasing import penetration right across British industry, and this process has been speeded up dramatically. How long can we stand by idly and allow that to happen? I look at the Red Book from which everyone has been quoting, and I see that in page four it states: … much of the sharp increase in domestic demand was met by higher imports … There was a particularly large increase in imports of manufactures which were 13½ per cent. higher in 1978 than in 1977. How long are we to tolerate that? How can we solve the problem of unemployment? If we used the old Keynesian method of increasing demand, it would not increase the supply but merely suck in a surge of imports, thereby wrecking the balance of payments. We have to do something different. I must close my speech shortly. If I am allowed to carry on, I shall do so until someone tells me to sit down. I believe that we shall have growing unemployment. What is a deflated economy but a holding back of the economy? What is 2 million unemployed apart from an import control? Is it not an import control of the worst kind? Does the international community want that? I believe that there is a better way. We need the Government to stimulate the economy. I end on this note. I hope that it is not blasphemy to say that policy must be accompanied by import controls. The opposition on the part of the Treasury, economic journalists, Government advisers and everyone else to import controls I find increasingly incomprehensible. If Mr. Speaker ever invites me to speak again. I shall continue with this subject. I predict that we shall never get out of our difficulties until we get selective and imaginative import controls. I do not have the time to explain how we  can do that now. We would not have to put them on food and raw materials. We would exercise them in a way which would not invote retaliation but meet with the sympathy and understanding of the international community.
