gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the House to show its usual indulgence towards one more maiden speech. It is rather difficult to be entirely non-controversial about a Budget, but I shall do my best. First, a few words about my constituency, Leyton, which, as hon. Members know, is a suburb of northeast London. Quite a number of hon. Members visited Leyton during January. I am sorry that there was snow on the ground at that time and Leyton was not at its best. I hope that some of them will come again in May when the flowers are out, the gardens are blooming and the shrubs are in flower along the roads. Then they will see a difference. Leyton is a lovely place in the summer time. The people of Leyton are well known throughout the country and, perhaps, throughout the world because of the sturdy independence of their views which they have expressed on several occasions. I have worked in Leyton for many years. I started there in 1947 as a civil engineer —I am a qualified civil engineer—and I have known Leyton very well for a long time. Last week, Leyton was involved in a shot-gun marriage when we joined Walthamstow and Chingford, finding ourselves no longer in the County of Essex but now part of the new Borough of Waltham Forest and starting off on our adventures as part of the Greater London area. We cannot claim great natural beauty for Leyton. I heard one of my hon. Friends from Scotland making his maiden speech from this very bench not long ago and talking about the beautiful hills and valleys of his constituency. We cannot claim that sort of beauty for Leyton. Nor can we claim famous ancient monuments, although we do have a fine church dating from the sixteenth century and a Conservative club built in the seventeenth century—two ancient monuments worthy of mention. Nevertheless, although we can make no great claims to natural beauty or ancient monuments, we have a fine history which goes back to Roman times. The name Leytonstone reminds us of the stone set by the Romans on the edge of the marshes bordering the River Lea which marked the beginning of the Roman Road which went to Colchester. Throughout history, Leyton has played a part. King Harold had land there, and other famous people have been connected with Leyton. One hundred years ago, my constituency was just two villages set in the fields near the River Lea. It was a popular place to live. There were fine houses in Leyton, and the City merchants used to journey by carriage day by day to and from their businesses in London. My own grandfather was one of these. He lived near Leyton Church and he used to travel daily to and from the City brewery business in which he was a partner. I have that family connection. Later on, after the railway came, the villages were built up and, gradually, they came together in one entity to form the town as we know it today. Curiously enough, some of the older folk still living in Leyton talk of the rivalry between the two villages which used to prevail 100 years ago. We have a certain amount of industry in Leyton, not so much large industry but small and medium-sized companies which work away and are very keen to export. They are very active now in trying to arrange an export council. My own company, a medium-sized engineering company, is one of these. We are proud of our borough services. Our library is one of the finest in the London area. I am sorry to say that, since our amalgamation, the rates are now the highest in the Greater London area; but, never mind that, we get fine   value for our money. I should mention also our well-known football team. Leyton Orient has done sterling work in the past and, even if it is at the moment not at the top of the league, it is struggling very hard and will, I am sure, come up again before very long. We have one great disability in Leyton, the high average age of our people. Next to Worthing, Leyton has, I believe, the highest average age of population. Some statistics are available and these show that there are 16,000 people of pensionable age in my constituency out of a total electorate of 66,000, that is to say, 25 per cent., which is a very high proportion. Whether or not it is due to the great longevity of our people in Leyton or whether it is that old Leytonians do not like to leave when they retire from work, the fact remains that the problem is becoming serious, and this is why I shall devote a later part of my speech to the position of pensioners and old people generally and the impact of the Budget upon them. I wish to refer to my predecessor, who now serves with distinction in another place. Lord Sorensen was connected with Leyton for a very long time. For 32 years he served as Member, first for West Leyton and then, when the constituencies were combined, for Leyton. Over all those years, he and his wife became associated with practically every aspect of the life of the borough. Lord Sorensen was a Minister of the Unitarian Church before becoming a Member of Parliament. He had a burning zeal for social service and worked in very many social service activities, as hon. Members will remember. Lord Sorensen's other great interest was the under-developed countries. During his Parliamentary career he paid many visits to Africa and India in the course of Parliamentary business. He was a member of the Pethick-Lawrence Commission which laid down the terms of reference for the granting of independence to India. He served with distinction on that body. All of us, I believe, welcomed the honour bestowed on Lord Sorensen in November by the Prime Minister. As I have said, we in Leyton face the problem of a rising average age. This problem will perhaps occur all over  the country in a few years' time. The pattern set in Leyton may well be followed throughout the country. Whatever has been done by the Budget for pensioners, I am sure that hon. Members will agree that they are still among the worst off people in the community. It is true that pensioners had a rise the other day. Some have called it the ""Irishman's rise"", but that is not altogether true. They are still among the worst off members of the community, however. The Chancellor said in his statement that he hoped that we would soon achieve a modest living for the elderly. At the moment, I believe that it is very modest and for some it is really hard living. It is true that the Budget gives some tax relief to pensioners and we are glad to see them. On the other hand, they will have to pay more for their tobacco and beer. On the whole, I do not believe that their position has improved. I am sorry that this should be so. Perhaps next year they may be luckier. We are providing quite a lot of extra money for the new pension increases. The sum being provided for the latest increases is £270 million, and in order to meet that cost the National Insurance Fund is being increased by £332 million. It is worth noting that, out of that £332 million, the sum of £265 million comes from extra contributions. Indeed, the extra contributions will, at this early stage, though not later, pretty well meet the outgoings of the new increases. The Exchequer will be playing its part according to the laid-down formula and this will come to £67 million in the current year. Thus, the National Insurance Fund for the time being will be £60 million better off. I would have hoped that, with so much surplus money, some of it might have been put aside for those elderly people who do not receive any pension at all. I want to talk about them a little later, as their need is very great and I hope that it will soon be recognised. The 6d. extra on the Income Tax was to help towards the pension increases. It is worth noting that 6d. on the Income Tax yields £130 million—more than double the amount being contributed to the Fund at the moment. There is, therefore, a sum of money that we could use   perhaps for those elderly people who are not receiving benefit at the moment. The total Exchequer contribution for 1964–65 towards the National Insurance Fund was £212 million. Let us compare that with some other figures. Defence takes over £2,000 million; education, another social service, takes £1,365 million. The total Exchequer revenue is £7,400 million. These are tremendous sums of money, yet only £230 million is the Exchequer contribution to the National Insurance Fund. Surely we are guilty of being too mean towards elderly people, those who are least able to fight. The £212 million provided by the Exchequer represents only one-sixth of the total available in the Fund. The rest, £1,000 million and more, comes from the contributors to the Fund. The Treasury, in fact, just primes the pump which produces the money from the contributors. Yet, as so often seems the case, it is the Treasury which calls the tune over pension increases. I am not sure that this is right. With their huge contributions, the electorate and industry should have a chance to call the tune of raising pensions. It is really a case of the tail wagging the dog at the moment since the Treasury produces only one-sixth of the amount but seems to keep the level under strict control. I believe, however, that the national, conscience is being stirred. It is time that we had a reappraisal. The standard of living of our pensioners should be raised above the breadline. They are, perhaps, the weak link in our chain of social services. Perhaps, if the Treasury cannot be more openhanded, the contributors can be called upon to bring pensioners to a high level. Pensioners look for security, but there are absurd flaws in the scheme. There is no built-in protection against inflation. There should be safeguards against depreciation and devaluation of currency. So often, increases are linked to political rather than economic events. Party manifestos or general elections are more likely to be the signal for pension increases than budget surpluses or satisfactory balances of payments. I hope that this concept of political considera-  tions in pension increases will die and that we shall be able instead to provide a long or medium term plan for the improvement of the position of our old people. There are, I believe, two factors to be considered for the future. First, we want to provide some form of built-in security against inflation so that there is protection against what happened in 1948–51, when the value of the low pension of 26s. went down and pensioners were left worse off. Secondly, I believe we should have some way of linking increases in pension to average earnings in the country. Today, the average earnings total £17 10s. How small £4 a week seems in comparison with that. We should aim to increase the percentage of what pensioners get compared with average earnings. Instead of being about 25 per cent. as now, it should rise to one-third or to 35 per cent. and we should make a long-term plan with this in view. I am sure that the country would respond if the Exchequer took the lead with a plan, along these lines, to provide pensioners with the security they look for. In the short-term, there is the case of those without pensions at all. Pensions are a question of priorities in providing money from the Exchequer for so many people. But here, surely, is a case which deserves special consideration. The cost would not be too high. Out of the 6d. on Income Tax only 1½d.would be required to provide a modified pension for these people. They were disappointed on 26th March and I hope that very soon, whichever way it is done, whether by an incomes guarantee or whether provided by the Opposition, if they return to power, something will be done to provide reasonable pensions for them. They, above all, are the victims of inflation. Many of them saved up for their old age and invested their money, some before the war in War Loan and others in Goverment stock, yet others in National Savings. All these have suffered severe depreciation and the earnings that these elderly people put on one side for their old age have so often been reduced in value. Today, the young seem to have tremendous opportunities before them, opportunities for enterprise of every sort.   But the elderly have little opportunity. They have the growing hardships of old age, the problems of failing health and perhaps the expenses of an invalid partner to look after. Perhaps they have a family which does not accept the responsibilities towards its old people which the older generation used to accept. In London, of which Leyton is a part, the problem is greater because of the higher cost of living for these people and the higher rents and the higher expenses with which they have become involved. Some of the progressive boroughs could help a lot if they would compile registers of elderly people so that the aid available, both municipal and private, could be canalised directly to them. We might inaugurate a national senior citizens' day rather like Mothers' Day or Fathers' Day, so that the attention of everybody could be directed to their needs. Last year's Budget resulted in a surplus of £440 million. The Treasury is overflowing with funds and yet all the nation is spending on the elderly out of the Exchequer is £270 million, less than 3 per cent. of total revenue. Year by year the number of pensioners increases. It is now 12 per cent. of the population and in a few years it will rise to 15 per cent. and possibly more. I believe that we can do more for our old people. I am sure that we are not spending enough on them and that what we are spending we are not spending right. I hope that when he prepares his Budget next year, the Chancellor of the Exchequer will be able to save something more for the old people. I hope and trust that those outside the scheme will be brought in and that those in the scheme will be given an assurance that the promises of the politicians will, in the long run, be translated into reality.
