gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful indeed, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to have this first opportunity of addressing the House. I represent a Preston constituency the north end of which has a football team, the team which drew with Manchester United and defeated Cardiff last week by nine goals to nil. Preston is famous for other reasons, too. Before the 1832 Parliamentary Act, it shared with Westminster the distinction of being just about the only democratic constituency in the whole country. This was at a time when other constituencies were either in the landlords' pockets or had a tiny number of electors who sold their votes at every election. In any comparison between Preston and Westminster I should say that Preston has the edge on Westminster, because I remember reading that during the election of Charles James Fox towards the end of the eighteenth century Charles bought votes by sending around the Duchess of Devonshire with kisses. There is no evidence of anything like that happening in Preston, no doubt because the men of Preston are so honest and because the women are so beautiful that any charms from any duchess would be quite superfluous. The democratic tradition of Preston is probably reflected in the fact that this year we are celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the existence of the Labour and Trades Council. Probably the early growth of this movement was associated with the early industrialisation of Preston. This part of England—Lanacashire—saw man's first great breakthrough in controlling the forces of nature—an event which raised human affluence to heights never dreamed of before. This was the result of great native genius expressing itself at first in the cotton industry, but remaining today in a great complex of industries, including the aircraft industry and its associated interests, an industry on which the future of Britain largely depends because of its ramifications. This is why I speak in this debate. Unfortunately, it is a controversial subject   for a maiden speech, when one is expected to be neutral. However, the people of Preston are forthright, like most Northerners. I draw courage from the words of another great Northerner, my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister, who not once but twice quoted the authority of Dante: The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who are neutral in a moral crisis.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st December, 1965; Vol. 722, c. 1924.] and would any hon. Member have a maiden neutral in a moral crisis? This is about morality. This is a question whether we were misled on the matter of the offset agreement relating to foreign currency in connection with the F111A. Many thought that the Saudi Arabian agreement was not included in this offset agreement and, although my right hon. Friend was quite genuine in his earlier statements, one wonders whether or not the United States negotiated a change of mind. I am aware that the United States Government are hard bargainers in matters of this kind. At least one right hon. Member, several hon. Members and even a noble Lord were given credit in my local newspaper for this deal, and I imagine that it was a deal which was concluded in the face of strong competition from America. The final credit was given in the local newspaper to a sales executive. According to this newspaper, the usual commission on the deal would be 1 per cent. which would have given the sales executive £1 million, though it was suggested that under the circumstances the commission might be somewhat less. Nevertheless there is raised the question, who is to be paid this money? I am wondering whether it should go to President Johnson, if he helped to conclude the deal. We might do better in the future in selling aircraft if we had the kind of power that comes from the United States Administration in aircraft deals throughout the world. I do not think that they are inhibited in using political influence and strength in order to forward the American aircraft industry. I have little sympathy with the crocodile tears which have been shed by some hon. Members opposite over the loss of foreign currency. They have shown little concern in the past about expenditure in connection either with foreign bases or  with the British Army of the Rhine. It is very significant that they would probably increase the loss of foreign currency in defence expenditure in Aden. However, I am more concerned about the future of the aircraft industry and I wish Opposition Members would say more about that, as hon. Members on this side of the House have done. Are we to continue to lose foreign currency over aircraft purchases? It would be very serious if this were to continue. I have some sympathy with some hon. Members opposite who have been expressing concern about the remarks of Mr. Richard Worcester. Some have asked the Minister publicly to disown the views of Mr. Worcester that the Anglo-French projects to which we are committed—or, at least, to which I thought we were committed—are to be shelved in favour of more co-operation with the United States. This has caused a great deal of alarm among aircraft workers throughout the country. I have received representations both personally and in writing from people, including the managing director of B.A.C., who are worried about Mr. Worcester's statement. People have put their views to me and I believe they are important views which need to be answered. They believe that the British aircraft industry faces slow extinction if the Government and nationalised airlines place large orders in the United States. Our best designers, engineers and craftsmen—not just the un-skilled men—are departing in their hundreds to our competitors, chief of whom are the United States. We are losing the brains, not the fat. I have been asked what we are to do with the aircraft of the 1970s which we have on British design boards. My constituents ask: will Britain get the orders with French co-operation, or will the orders go to the United States, or will we just drift so that in the end we shall have to go American? The aircraft workers say that those who talk merely of the economy are penny wise. If the British aircraft industry goes to the wall, British technology goes with it. How can Britain remain in the front of the computer age, if we withdraw aircraft from the main field of computer development? On the other hand, if we build under licence to American designs, what shall we design—fruit machines? B.E.A.'s great success for over 20 years has been based on British planes. The French know what they want. They want to make the planes that they use, if possible in co-operation with us. This way into Europe is wide open and is the most practical way of getting in. We—not the French—create the difficulties in this case. Dutch, Swedes, Germans and Italians, both inside and outside the Common Market, could be partners and customers in this huge market. This would be a market to match the Americans. Equal with our partners in aircraft and other projects, we could remain an independent industrial Power with high living standards and with some self-respect. Prestonians ask not for words and plans. They ask for orders now.
