gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of addressing this House, and I am deeply conscious of my shortcoming, and pray the indulgence of the House. I represent King's Lynn, which is not a naval port, but it is one of the oldest seaports in the country, and many of my constituents are most interested in the welfare and the actions of the Navy. I am going to raise a point which deals with Vote A of the Estimates, dealing with the number of personnel borne on the books of Her Majesty's ships,   and, in particular, I want to mention the officer part of that personnel. What is bothering me more than anything else is the impact upon the efficiency of the Royal Navy as a separate entity of the various Allied combined organisation headquarters which we see coming into being with greater and greater intensity. As I see it, the need for the Navy today is to present itself in as strong and efficient position as it can with the personnel and equipment at its disposal. That is our contribution to the ""cold"" war which we are now fighting. Obviously the more efficient and ready the British Fleet can appear, the greater the deterrent to a third world war. On the other hand, the Navy is continually having to supply staff officers, experienced and senior officers to various N.A.T.O. commands, and that, of course, is again necessary preparatory to the fighting of a ""hot"" war, should that calamity ever come upon us. The First Lord's statement today made it clear that an immediate and substantial number of additional experienced officers has been needed as the result of the measures taken to increase the preparedness of the Fleet. That is an indisputable fact. The Navy has never had to meet such commitments in time of peace as it is doing today. As has been already mentioned, Korea, Malaya, Egypt, the combined exercises in the Mediterranean, the greater number of ships of the Reserve Fleet that have to be kept up and manned with care and maintenance parties—all these are large commitments on the Service today. The First Lord mentioned our new types of frigates. There is so much equipment required in the ships of the Fleet today that it cannot be got all into one ship. We have anti-aircraft frigates, antisubmarine frigates and anti-aircraft direction-finding frigates—that is three sorts. Surely the effect of that will be that we shall need more captains (F), more and more senior officers commanding our squadrons of frigates and destroyers. So we see, on the one hand, a greater and greater pull at the experienced officers at our disposal, and at the same time, a pulling at the structure of our Navy by these new commands which are coming into being. The Supreme Allied Commander of Europe must have naval elements with many staff officers. Under  him there are three subordinate commands—the Northern Europe, the Western Europe and the Southern Europe. Again that calls for a number of liaison officers. A Supreme Allied Commander (Atlantic) is now coming into being. He will need a staff of our senior and experienced officers. Indeed, they are already being appointed. Soon, I have no doubt, we shall see a Channel Command formed. There is another point, and that is the Allied air commands which will need their naval elements of liaison officers. I presume that before long we shall see a Supreme Allied Commander (Mediterranean) appointed, with an Allied air commander again in that sphere, all of which will tend to pull away from our Navy those officers whom we can ill-spare. The Navy is a very balanced force. It has been built up over many years on a rough proportion of one officer to 10 men. If we see the balance of that structure being upset by large numbers of the more experienced and senior officers being pulled right out of the organisations which are necessary for the efficient functioning of the Fleet as an entity, I am afraid we shall see, or may see, the fighting capacity of our Navy seriously impaired. That is my concern in the matter today, and I ask the First Lord to consider these points. Perhaps the matter should have been raised in the defence debate yesterday, but I purposely left it for today because I thought that it would come better from a naval angle than if it had been brought up in the general defence debate.
