gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech on a matter that is very dear to my heart. First, I should like to pay sincere tribute to the former hon. Member for Greenwich, the late Guy Barnett. He was known and respected in Greenwich as a sincere, hardworking and caring Member of Parliament. I am sure that all hon. Members would like to join me in extending deepest sympathy to his wife and family. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] Just over a week ago the people of Greenwich put their trust in me by electing me to represent them in this House. I have promised to fight to improve the quality of their  lives, which is clearly deteriorating rapidly. To most people Greenwich means a day out, perhaps a trip down the river, a visit to our beautiful historic buildings and, weather permitting, a picnic in our royal park. Tourists go home with their photographs showing them with one foot in the northern hemisphere and one in the southern, and people alert enough at noon to keep their eyes on the observatory see our famous ball rise and fall to signal Greenwich mean time. Although the people of Greenwich are proud of their heritage, their preoccupations are of a different nature. Greenwich is part of inner London and suffers from many inner city problems: high levels of unemployment, especially among the young, a chronic shortage of housing, council housing that is often in an appalling state of disrepair, and schools and education standards that often leave a great deal to be desired. From the poorest council estates to the affluent Blackheath, there is great anxiety about the declining state of the National Health Service in our area, and law and order is a major concern — whether in the tower blocks or in the comfortable middle-class houses. I shall speak about each of these in turn—first of all, jobs. There are about 5,000 unemployed men and women in Greenwich. That is approximately 15 per cent., or one in six, of the population. They are mostly young, unskilled and poorly educated, and often YTS failures. Although there has been a big drop in industrial and manufacturing jobs in our area, there is still a shortage of skilled labour. Even basic skills are at a premium. The Woolwich jobcentre, which covers Greenwich and Eltham as well as Woolwich, last year managed to fill only 38 per cent. of its secretarial vacancies, and the building trade and light engineering works also have vacancies. This clearly brings me on to education and training. Despite all the money spent on them, Inner London education authority children are clearly getting a poor deal. Parents of children at the secondary stage feel particularly bitter in the third year of industrial dispute. Teacher-parent liaison is still very poor. The marking of work is patchy and we still have over 1,000 teachers surplus to requirements in some schools while thousands of children are untaught in others. At a time when the number of pupils has dropped by one sixth and the number of teachers has dropped by one tenth, administration costs have virtually doubled from £44 million in 1981 to £87 million in 1986. To enable our children to get even those jobs requiring only basic skills, never mind the high-skill, high-tech jobs in the City that are currently filled by young people who commute from the home counties, the education of our children in London must be improved and basic standards must be restored. This is clearly important in the case of Docklands, where jobs of all kinds, including catering, banking and secretarial jobs as well as highly specialised ones, are there for the taking. It is an indictment of our education system that the youngsters of Docklands do not have the qualifications for the range of jobs available. Education and training must be given priority if the economy is to revive, and those things are certainly vital if the youngsters of London are to get the jobs that are there for the taking. Housing in Greenwich is perhaps the major single source of despair among its people. There has been a fourfold increase in homeless families, from 323 in 1982–83 to 1,307 in 1985–86. Over the same period house starts   have fallen by more than half. House prices in Greenwich have increased even faster than the London average, making it impossible for most local people, and particularly young couples, even to consider buying a home. Approximately 3,000 families are desperate for a transfer from council housing that is unsatisfactory for a number of reasons: chronic disrepair—and some of the disrepair that I have seen would not look amiss in a Dickensian film — overcrowding, children in tower blocks, or a combination of all three. More than 16,000 people are on the council's waiting list, and that number does not include many people who feel that there is so little hope that they do not even bother to put their names forward. This disguises the fact that many young couples with families are living with in-laws in far from ideal conditions. Many young people who are ready to leave home to make an independent start in life but for whom no accommodation is available have to stay with their parents. It is estimated that there is a backlog of £60 million worth of repair work on the Ferrier estate alone, and Greenwich council has only £15·7 million to spend next year on housing investment in the whole borough. How can we give hope to those people who are currently trapped either in a state of homelessness or in council housing that is totally unsatisfactory and who feel helpless and desperate? We urgently need a partnership of national and local action, and a partnership of public and private investment. The people trapped in those estates do not have any strong ideological view about where the money should come from. They need decent homes in which to live. I turn now to the Health Service. In our area we have lost three hospitals in as many years — St. Nicholas's hospital, the British Home for Mothers and Babies, and the Dreadnought hospital. Now the Brook hospital is fighting for its existence. Hospital beds in Greenwich are becoming like conveyor belts because many patients are discharged far too early as doctors and nurses struggle to keep pace with the ever lengthening waiting lists. We have the worst mortality rate in the region, and infant mortality is a serious problem. The future does not look promising. The regional health authority had to agree to cut the number of acute beds on the understanding that demand would fall. There has been no such reduction in demand, and, although the bulk of the reduction in acute beds has already been made, it has not resulted in anything like the cost saving that was anticipated, largely because the dedication of doctors and nurses has resulted in the remaining beds being more intensively used. We look with fear to the future because we do not know how we will make the necessary cuts without destroying a service that is already perilously close to collapse. Law and order in Greenwich, as in so many other inner city areas, speaks for itself. Housebreaking, car thefts, violence on our streets, vandalism and criminal damage have risen dramatically in Greenwich as they have risen elsewhere and are now almost commonplace. People do not feel safe on the streets at night and our old people feel increasingly vulnerable, even in their homes. Jobs, education, housing and the Health Service must be given the priority that they deserve. Until the fabric of our society is restored Greenwich will follow the pattern of other inner city areas—a pattern of decline, decay and despair.
