gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
My maiden speech will, I hope, be somewhat less controversial than that of the able and hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, Central (Mr. Fisher), but I hope that it will not be too dull. It is a great privilege to be the first Conservative representative for Halifax since 1964. My predecessor in that role was the right hon. Member for Surrey, South-West (Mr. Macmillan) whose long and distinguished service in this House as the right hon. Member for Halifax and for Farnham is well known to all. He and his wife are still regarded with great affection by many people in Halifax today. Halifax prospered as a textile town during the industrial revolution and became known to many as the imperial capital of Yorkshire, not least because it was a major centre of the brewing industry. It was also the place from which the building society movement was founded. Employment today, while still including textiles, brewing and the building society, is more diverse and the town is gradually adapting to the needs of the modern age. Its fine Victorian centre, combined with its industrial past, provide a heritage of which we in Halifax are greatly proud. The surrounding countryside is some of the best in Britain and I commend it as an excellent centre for a holiday. Recently the constituency has had the additions of the townships of Southowran, Shelf and Sowerby Bridge. The  area of Shelf was formerly in the Bradford, South constituency. The hon. Member for Bradford, South (Mr. Torney) who previously served the people of Shelf, is currently recovering from illness. I am sure that the House will join me in sending him every good wish for a full and speedy recovery. The town of Sowerby Bridge also has an ancient history and heritage. It is a place of enormous potential. It was formerly represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Calder Valley (Mr. Thompson) and I am delighted that he has been returned to this House with a large majority which is more appropriate both to his ability and his girth. Finally, in these tributes I wish to mention the previous Member for Halifax, Dr. Shirley Summerskill. She served Halifax for 19 years and was a respected Member. We owe her a considerable debt of gratitude. She was greatly concerned with questions of health and social services and it is appropriate that my maiden speech should be on those subjects. In contrast to some of the comments which have been made by other hon. Members today, it gives me pleasure to say that in Halifax and the surrounding area during the past four years there have been considerable improvements in health and social services, and we are soon to have a major new hospital costing £8 million. I am delighted about that. Reference is made in the Gracious Speech to achieving the best value for money in the National Health Service, and that includes the possibility of examining the use of private enterprise for laundry, cleaning and catering services. In that respect, the Calderdale health authority, which serves my constituency, has been in the forefront. The use of commercial services, instead of major capital investment in a new NHS laundry, is under active consideration. It may be that, when all the relevant factors have been taken into account, commercial contracts will not be entered into. But the very least that the exercise will have ensured is that a full appraisal will have been made of all available options, rather than taking what was previously considered the obvious course of action, that of investing large sums of public money in a new laundry. Several novel ideas are being considered. The overall object is to achieve value for money, whether by using private contractors or by using public money more effectively. That can only be to the good and provide more money at the end of the day for patient care. Being a Yorkshireman, I am concerned about value for money, as are the people of Halifax, who, to use the vernacular, recognise that one cannot get owt for nowt. If substantial savings in other areas—such as local authority refuse collection services—can be taken as a guide, savings in the NHS by using contractors for services or by the more effective use of public funds could save about 20 per cent., or £160 million, which would then be available for patient care. Economies of that scale have resulted both from local authorities using private contractors and by the tendering procedure in effect bringing to light in-house savings. On the broad issue of care in the community, coming from an area where the aging population is a particularly high percentage of the total, I am acutely aware of the problems of the elderly. It is obviously right that we should care for as many of the elderly as possible in the community for as long as possible, and I welcome the expansion locally and nationally of the home help, warden, meals-on-wheels and other services. The very   sheltered housing concept, if handled wisely, can also make a major contribution, but there will always be a need for residential and hospital accommodation. Care in the community needs a balanced approach and we must take care that, though soundly based, the policy does not result in some old people staying in the community when they should be in a hospital or a home. I am sure that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Social Services fully recognises the vital role of the voluntary sector in providing services for the elderly and other groups. Hopefully the voluntary organisations will he fully involved in services for the elderly as with other groups, because often it is the voluntary services which are able to respond more flexibly and are more in tune with individual needs than are the statutory services. In that respect, private nursing homes have a part to play. In my constituency we have several homes with a high standard of professional management and nursing care. Local authorities should not, as they often tend to these days, refuse to make use of such local homes when considering the available options for the care of the elderly. As for funding arrangements for caring in the community, local authorities' social service departments will he taking a much greater burden and that will need sound and longer-term financing. It will mean the increasing and more flexible use of joint funds and the transfer of funds in some cases. Hopefully, schemes will have a long-term financial base which will not be in question so that health authorities, local authorities and voluntary organisations will be able to plan on a firm footing. I wish to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me to speak. I wish also to thank the staff of the House for the courtesy which is shown by them to all new Members. It is very much like one's first days at a new school or college. Their unfailing kindness and courtesy has made a firm foundation for me and many other new Members. I hope that I shall be able to build on that and represent fully the interests of my constituents.
