gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to be able to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, at this moment so that I may make my maiden speech on this Bill, which is of great importance to my constituency. I hope that the hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Peter Walker) will forgive me if I forgo the pleasure of following his arguments too closely, but I assure him that I listened with great attention to all that he said and that I shall be expressing my views on the merits of his arguments in a more positive fashion in the Division later. Like all new hon. Members, I faced the ordeal of making my maiden speech with mixed feelings, rather like one of my constituents felt after he had had a dream in which he saw the whole Board of London Transport aboard a double-decker bus shooting off Beachy Head—a feeling of elation and at the same time horror. I was glad that as I came into the Chamber I met my hon. Friend the Member for Leicester, North-West (Sir B. Janner), who has displayed a great deal of kindness to many of us new Members. He said to me, ""You are looking extremely preoccupied"". Indeed I am"", I said. ""I am about to make my maiden speech."" He said, ""Don't worry about that. For the first six months you are in this place you will think that all the people who sent you here were extremely foolish. For the rest of the time you will think that all the people who sent everybody else here were extremely foolish"". I thought about this as I sat trembling on these benches, and I had it in mind to try to postpone my maiden speech for another five months, but perhaps I had better be brave and press on. I have the privilege to represent the constituency of Harrow, East, a comparatively new division, but one which is part of an area with a rich political history. In the early part of the 19th century we had a sort of ""Cliveden set"" at Bentley Priory, where Lord Aberdeen—may the Lord rest his puny soul—used to entertain such interesting political personages as Wellington and Pitt. Another former Prime Minister who has associations  with the area who will find much more favour on these benches is Lord Attlee, who for many years lived near the London Transport Underground terminal at Stanmore, near my home. There are many people in my constituency who have benefited considerably from the social revolution which Lord Attlee pioneered when he sat on the Treasury Bench in the House. There is also a great feeling of affection in my constituency for Lady Attlee, whose work for the local Red Cross, in particular, is remembered by many people there. The political novelist Trollope also had a slight connection with my constituency. I hope that if my right hon. Friends on the Treasury Bench espy me in the Crypt with a volume of Trollope they will acquit me of foolish and unworthy ambitions and will think that I am merely trying to advance a constituency interest. My area has been represented by many men of distinction in the House. Hon. Members will forgive me if, being a member of the Press, I say that perhaps the greatest was John Wilkes, who sat in the House for many years with one or two colourful interruptions at the start of his career One cannot think of history and this Bill without recalling that Queen Boadicea fought many of her most famous battles in my constituency. In her ancient Briton chariot she was able to get across my constituency with far greater dispatch than the modern British housewife in a London Transport bus. For these reasons, I must regard the Bill as nothing more than a necessary evil. I fear that my right hon. Friend the Minister has been cast far too much in the rôle of fairy godmother and not enough of stern stepmother to London Transport. I regret that the Bill has no strings attached to it to guarantee efficiency by London Transport, which is a most inefficient monopoly. I am sorry that there is nothing in the Bill which will cause London Transport to improve its staff relationships. A virtual state of civil war exists in that organisation between its staff and management. I regret that there is nothing in the Bill to direct attention to the appalling sick pay conditions in London Transport. The men and women conductors in London Transport enjoy equal pay. But the women have to wait until they have   served five years before they can draw sick pay whereas the men have to wait only one year. I hope that my right hon. Friend will refer to this matter later. I regard it as an outrage against the 20th century and something which the progressive elements in the House should do something about. I regret that there is nothing in the Bill to ensure that London Transport becomes more sensitive to the views of its passengers. There is nothing in it to give confidence to the people in my constituency that the bus services will be improved. I do not underestimate the complexities and difficulties, but London Transport must be made more enterprising and more flexible before this House gives it any more money. My right hon. Friend referred to the Bill as being a holding measure, as a temporary expedient. My constituents have been holding on for far too long. I was glad that my right hon. Friend said that she would shortly introduce a White Paper. She was given certain warnings by hon. Members opposite. I should like, with the utmost respect, to issue a warning from this side of the House. I tell my right hon. Friend that, unless the White Paper proposes radical Socialist changes in the organisation of London Transport, she will be in much more trouble from this side of the House than from the Opposition side. The fact that the present difficulties of London Transport have been caused by the doctrinal follies of right hon. and hon. Members opposite will not save my right hon. Friend from our righteous anger. I want to hear no more about the 13 wasted years. The electorate has passed judgment upon that. That is why I and many more of my hon. Friends are now here. What we expect now from the Front Bench is effective Government, and I am sure that we shall get it. I urge my right hon. Friend not to tinker any further with London Transport. There is only one solution to the problem of public transport in the London area and elsewhere—a democratic socialist solution—and I hope that she will get on with the job. I hope that nothing that I have said will be taken as criticism of my right hon. Friend [Laughter.] I have some personal knowledge of the tremendously  hard work that she has put in during the last five months, and I want her to know that it is very much appreciated by hon. Members on this side of the House. There will be bold backing for her plans when she produces them in the White Paper. I have, perhaps, said one or two little things slightly sharply for a maiden speech, but I have not done so out of a desire to offend against a pleasant custom. Not all of those who are new to this House want to sweep away many of its useful traditions. Not all of us want to see this Chamber changed from the foremost debating forum in the world into a glorified version of the television programme ""Juke Box Jury"", with hon. Members giving tingling smiles to the cameras and pressing buttons to decide a hit or a miss. But no one in my constituency can discuss transport without becoming violently controversial. I hope that the House will accept that I have rather toned down my remarks on this occasion. If I have earned a bad mark for being controversial, I hope to earn a good mark for brevity by now sitting down with my thanks to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and to the House for your indulgence.
