gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise with some trepidation, having been a Member of this House for a very short time, to make my first speech. I ask for the indulgence of the House on this occasion and shall do my utmost to observe the custom and practice that has developed in this House, firstly of being brief and, secondly, of being non-controversial. The first may prove easy, but the second may prove more difficult. On the passing of the Bill—as I see it as a Member representing an industrial constituency with the feelings of his constituents at heart, and not as an economist —we shall witness once more the redistribution of wealth from those who are least able to afford it to those who least require it. I can foresee that after this Budget, as I saw after the last one, we shall witness once more the cleavage between the poor and the rich made more distinct. We shall see the wealthy made more wealthy and we shall see members of the lower income groups made relatively worse off. During our term of office we distributed the wealth of the nation substantially and effectively in a more equitable manner, but with each succeeding Tory Budget we shall see the restoration back to the previous level of the wage incomes prior to 1939 when we had successive Tory Governments. For instance, fairly recently we have seen two different types of bread produced. Because the Government realise that there are two distinct classes, we are producing one type of bread for the worse off and another for those who can afford a higher quality. We witnessed that in the case of margarine and butter prior to 1939, when the relatively worse off could not afford to buy the best butter available for those with large purses. The Chancellor said this was an incentive Budget, an incentive to produce more this coming year. I ask the Chancellor this question: Is it an incentive to my constituents since my constituency is predominantly coalmining? Is it an incentive to the surface workers, to the underground on-cost workers who are below the Income Tax level and cannot   benefit by the Income Tax reductions? Is it not also noticeable to these lower paid workers that the percentage reduction of Purchase Tax is less on the commodities that come within the orbit of the working-class purse? Quite respectfully, I say that the Budget has been no incentive whatever to those people to work harder and to produce more. Have we not seen also that with the introduction of this Budget the trade union leaders have been placed in an invidious position? They recognise the need for increased production, but they also realise the needs of their members for increased wages if they are not to be relatively worse off under this Budget. Already this week we have read that one and a quarter million shop assistants are pressing for wage increases. This morning we have read that the Amalgamated Engineering Union has put forward a claim for a wage increase. We have also read this morning that the Shipbuilding and Engineering Union is considering pressing a claim which, in total, will mean that four and a quarter million people in the near future will be pressing for wage increases. Are we, then, going to witness the industrial upsurge which followed last year's Budget? I am sure that we ought to have seen more incentives to the workers in the lower income groups, but we ought also to have seen—I say this very feelingly—some incentive to the old age pensioners, especially having in mind that they should be able to look forward happily to their remaining years on this earth. Yet with each Conservative Government the old age pensioners are suffering. We ought also to have seen strong action being taken to remove unemployment. That would have gone a long way towards creating the necessary atmosphere for increased production because that atmosphere must be created before we can get an increase in industrial production. When we were in office we removed the fear of unemployment. Of course it took a long time because of the bitter memories of Tory Governments prior to 1939. Yet we got rid of that persistent and uneasy feeling, and the result was a marked increase in output plus better industrial relations. If this Bill is approved, we shall once more see the least desirable instincts of  mankind exploited and satisfied to please the sectional interests of this nation. Those instincts are greed and fear. We are seeing that the capitalist is being provided with the opportunity of satisfying his greed for profit. That is the satisfaction of the instinct of greed. On the other hand, we see the fear of unemployment instilled into workers and the fear of unemployment is used as a weapon to prize more production from individual workers. Those two working in harmony —the exploitation of the greed of the capitalist for profit plus the exploitation of the fear of unemployment instilled into the worker—is the method used in this Budget to try to get increased output per worker. This, I suggest, can only result in men working beyond human capacity, a higher accident and fatality rate and a lower expectancy of life. This may seem a rather hypothetical and gloomy picture, but it could be the picture of grim reality if the unemployment trend continues. So far my constituents have not been greatly affected but, speaking in advance, I am also issuing the warning. I should say that the Chancellor has been rather biased in his release of amateur sport from Entertainments Duty. Surely he could have thought of my constituency's football team, who are rather badly in need of help in this respect. If we have Budgets of this nature throughout the years of Conservative Government, we shall not only see the clock being put back but shall see it deprived of the hands of time.
