gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
A new Member of the House who hopes to make his maiden speech finds himself the recipient of much advice from all sides. With all due modesty, I have decided to ignore all but two of these pieces of advice which I have received over the past few days. The advice which I propose to accept I have gleaned from the columns of the Daily Mail, from a celebrated columnist,   the right hon. Member for Enfield, West (Mr. Iain Macleod), who recently gave it as his opinion that it did not much matter whether or not a maiden speech was controversial so long as the maiden speaker did not ""do a Hamlet"" on the House and spend the first half of his speech thinking out loud as to whether his maiden speech should be controversial. I propose to follow the right hon. Gentleman's advice and to leave it to him and others to judge for themselves. The second piece of advice which I propose to follow is something which, along with other new Members of the House, I have already been incautious enough to suggest to the House—in the shape of an early day Motion seeking to keep the speeches of hon. Members on both front and back benches suitably short. I shall, therefore, be brief. I feel that in my speech I must follow convention to the extent of saying that I feel greatly honoured to have been elected to represent the people of Feltham in this House. Feltham is a constituency the qualities of which are many, but its main claim to fame is that, prior to the creation of the Greater London Council, by hon. Members opposite, it had achieved under a Labour-controlled Feltham Urban District Council perhaps the finest housing record of any comparable local authority in the country. The only other thing which I would say in this connection is that my constituents in Feltham, very many of whom are highly skilled workers at London Airport and on the surrounding industrial estates, are much too commonsensical and down-to-earth to be impressed by flowery phrases or ""flannel"" from their Member of Parliament, which is why I say no more about them on this occasion. However, a reference to Feltham would not be complete without a word about my predecessor, ""Bob"" Hunter, whom the House well knew as an assiduous and dedicated Member and whom I have known as a good comrade and a very good friend indeed. I speak for a great number of people in Feltham, where he has been greatly loved as well as respected, when I say that we wish him a long, happy and productive retirement in the years ahead. Aside from my natural and understandable pleasure at finding myself a  Member of this honourable House, I have in addition a special reason for gratification which I share, as far as I know, only with the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Brian Harrison). Like myself, he, too, is an Australian born and bred and he, too, I have no doubt, shares my pride in the fact that the ties of Commonwealth are still sufficiently strong to make possible the election to this British Parliament of one who is still unrepentantly proud of the land of his birth. I mention my Australian birth not merely for reasons of sentiment but also because I am old-fashioned enough to believe that the British Commonwealth has been a much under-estimated—and a much under-used—weapon in our political armoury. However, since this debate, though fairly wide-ranging, can hardly be held to include a discussion on the relations between Labour Britain and the Commonwealth, I will content myself by saying that I hope we shall not see a repetition of the quite shameful neglect of Commonwealth interests which occurred when some hon. Members opposite were hell-bent on getting Britain into the Common Market three or four years ago, irrespective of the terms available. None the less, there is one sense in which this debate, which I believe indirectly to be concerned with the future of the British aircraft industry, connects with the Commonwealth. I believe that a not inconsiderable part of the troubles which have afflicted this industry, on the civil as well as the military side, has been due to a quite staggering failure to develop the potentialities of the Commonweath, both as a market for our civil aircraft and as possible collaborators in terms of the development and procurement of such military aircraft as the Government, preferably acting as the agent of the United Nations, may judge to be required in the future. In my judgment, there is one consideration which should weigh above all others when we discuss the aircraft industry. The fact is that with every year that passes the aircraft industry of the Western world is becoming more and more of an American preserve. Helped by a scale of operation that we cannot hope to equal, with the enormously profitable defence contracts which are available to bear a large part of their development costs—   and with hidden subsidies ever-present to sweeten the mixture—the Americans could easily swallow all their foreign competitors in this industry within a few years, with the most dire consequences for this and other Western European countries. Such a development would be serious enough in terms of the livelihood of thousands of skilled workers in various parts of Britain, and, indeed, in such towns as. Toulouse, in Southern France; but the consequences for us in political and strategic terms would be infinitely worse. Any hopes which any of us may have entertained of an independent British foreign policy, including independent initiatives for peace, and so on, could safely be forgotten. Our dependence on America in strategic and political terms would he complete and final in that event. For that reason, I have been unhappy about the Government's recent decision to purchase the F111 as a tactical strike aircraft for cast-of-Suez theatres of war. I believe that this decision is one more nail in the coffin of an independent European aircraft industry—an earlier and even more disastrous coffin-nail being the decision of hon. Members opposite to buy the American Phantom instead of developing a British or, perhaps, an Anglo-French aircraft for that requirement. Unlike my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, I am not a Common Marketeer. I happen to believe that that would involve selling our soul for a rather smelly mess of pottage. I certainly agree with my right hon. Friend, however, in a speech which he made in the House a year or so ago, when he pleaded for Anglo-French or, rather European collaboration in aircraft manufacture. If I understood him aright, my right hon. Friend, too, saw the dangers of an American-dominated industry, for this country above all others. I hope that his successor as Minister of Aviation will move energetically to bring together for the purposes of co-operative long-term planing and development the great array of potential customers among the airlines of the Commonwealth and of Europe. It is very sad to me to see so many of our Commonwealth airlines, in particular, heavily involved in the purchase of American aircraft—the more so since the  technical and scientific resources of both the British and French aircraft industries are in no sense inferior to the American and in several key respects are markedly superior. I believe that the necessary and overdue transformation of the aircraft industry of Britain could best be carried out under a plan which includes substantial public ownership of the industry, or even the outright nationalisation of the private sectors of that industry—which, incidentally, over the last 15 years or so, has been in receipt of about £4,000 million of public money in one form or another. If this were done, the British industry would, I believe, be able to compete on equal terms with the highly efficient French firms, such as Sud Aviation, which have long since been owned entirely by the French nation. I am well aware, however, that to pursue such a line of thought might well land me into an area of controversy, which is something I have tried hard to avoid. I therefore conclude my brief remarks by appealing to my colleagues and friends in the Government, at this very late hour in the crisis of the British aircraft industry, to open their eyes to the very real danger in the present situation. I feel sure that a Government who have so firmly nailed their colours to the twin masts of scientific and technological progress, on the one hand, and political independence on the other, will not lightly stand aside when the well-being of the country, and the very future of Britain as an independent and powerful agent for peace in the world, is so obviously involved. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and Members of the House, for listening to me so patiently.
