gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In making my maiden speech, I must first congratulate the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford, South (Mr. Torney) on a most articulate and sincere speech. I did not agree with it, but I hold him in none the less esteem for that. Having experienced in the past few months the trauma of a General Election campaign, the alarms of a gas attack in this Chamber, and the horror of a fire at sea, I can only assure the House that those hazards were but pale precursors of the terror and trepidation currently being experienced by this maiden speaker. I am anxious to observe the traditions normally followed in a maiden speech. The first, that of non-controversiality, I shall do my best to observe, but if by any chance I should happen to stray, purely from force of habit, into the realms of controversy, I earnestly crave the indulgence of hon. Members opposite. The second convention, that of paying tribute to my predecessor, I comply with most willingly. Lôrd Diamond was for many years a most illustrious and much appreciated Member of the House. He is now a Member of the other House, where, I am sure, he will acquit himself with equal distinction and will be just as much appreciated. It is, however, the third convention, that of referring to my constituency, which gives me the greatest pleasure of all. Gloucester is a historic city, boasting one of the most superb cathedrals in   Britain, and set amid what is surely the most beautiful gently undulating countryside in England. The people of Gloucester are themselves gentle, kind, warm and tolerant. They are people whom I am extremely honoured to represent and proud to serve, and of whom I shall always strive to be worthy. In a city so rich in historical tradition and citizenry, it is difficult to single out events or persons for special mention. Indeed, if the Thames had not lost its way, this Parliament might have been sitting in Gloucester today, for it was in Gloucester in the year 896 that the assembly first took place from which we can trace the earliest beginnings of our Parliament. It was in Gloucester that William began the Domesday Book, and in Gloucester that another historic precedent occurred, perhaps more appropriate for this debate. In the year 1207, in what must surely be the earliest recorded attempt to control inflation and help the housewife, a Royal decree ordained that lampreys, a local delicacy, must not be sold there for more than 2s. each. I single out for special mention, however, an 18th century dean of Gloucester Cathedral, Josiah Tucker, who, as well as being a divine and a great humanitarian, was a prominent economist and political writer. Some of his pronouncements are almost uncanny in their aptness today, for in 1766, in a tract on political and commercial matters, he spoke of the need to excite the activity and ingenuity of England's people, by giving them free scope, without exclusion, confinement or monopoly"". So, perhaps, it is only fair to say that in Josiah Tucker of Gloucester we had a pretty accurate prophet of modern Conservative economic philosophy. Gloucester, as well as being a great city of yesterday, is very much a city of today, with a multifarious industry ranging from light and heavy engineering to the largest ice cream factory in the world. It boasts a skilled and diverse labour force, and its position and surrounding infrastructure make it an ideal city for further industrial expansion. Unhappily, unemployment has mounted in Gloucester over the past few years, as a result of restriction and stagnation. It is fervently to be hoped that the easing  of company liquidity and other Government measures in the near future will allow Gloucester to return to its former prosperity. I am especially glad to have caught the eye of the Chair today because economic affairs are fundamental to the well being of our people and my overriding concern and, indeed, the concern of every right hon. and lion. Member, will always be the effect of any economic situation on the lives and living standards of the people we represent. While it is true that we on this side of the House do not believe in instant government, there can be no doubt now that the pot is really ""perking"" and the brew promises to be strong and flavourful. Although there have been some divisions of opinion among political journalists, rather like those among their calleagues the fashion writers, as to whether my right hon. Friend's statement last week was a mini or a maxi-budget, I am sure that it was much more than either of those names might imply. It was, in fact, the first step in the implementation of measures which keep faith with a deeply-held Conservative conviction that the Welfare State as it exists today is inadequate where it is most needed, wasteful in its provision of indiscriminate subsidies, and harmful to the country's economy and to the well being of those people who are not receiving as much help as they should. I meet such people all the time in my constituency. They are the forgotten people of a Welfare State which attempts to be too all-embracing. In welcoming my right hon. Friend's decision to allocate extra resources for the elderly and the mentally handicapped and for the hospital services, I urge him to consider the further improvements of State assistance to the elderly as soon as it is possible for him to do so. On the subject of benefits, I am delighted to see that the hon. Member for Hitchin (Mrs. Shirley Williams) is still with us, because earlier in the debate she thrust a piece of paper upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer which purported to challenge his figures about family entitlement. I have administered free school meals. I am sure that the hon. Lady knows that it is not only the income of the family, nor the number of children,   but many other factors which decide the entitlement to free school meals and many other areas of the social services. Clearly a reappraisal of the relationship of the tax system structure to the Social Security system and of the whole structure of the finance of social security, together with a reassessment of the priorities in Government spending, is essential to curbing inflation and curing our economic maladies. I firmly believe that my right hon. Friend's statement last week, together with Government proposals in the sphere of industrial relations, will go down in history as the most significant first steps to restore long-term economic health and growth and with it better conditions for everyone. A recurring theme in the debate, especially from hon. Members opposite, has been that of inflation. Of course inflation is the villain of the piece in causing most of our social and economic problems today. Inflation was not invented on 19th June. We have been suffering from mounting inflation over the past five years, and equally it will not be cured overnight. Of course it matters economically if our goods are priced out of world markets. It matters that inflation greatly increases the cost on Government spending and the extra need for Government spending. But it matters even more in human terms to those already suffering hardship, to those living on pensions, on savings, and on fixed incomes. Not least, it matters to the housewife. So naturally we are all concerned with our obligation to these people to bring inflation under control. I believe that my right hon. Friend's proposals will in the long term enable us to do just that. Inflation is a problem faced by many other countries. But when we look at the formulae of those countries which have been more successful than ourselves in overcoming this problem, we must inevitably ask: what is the magic ingredient in their recipe which is missing from ours? There are three such ingredients and they are elementary: a more equitable productivity to wage ratio, lower personal taxation, and a lower percentage of total social security finance from the State than we have here. A move towards adding the first of these ingredients to our economic recipe  will be made when the Government introduce proposals for the reform of industrial relations. The second and third elements in the formulae of those countries which have achieved more expansion, less inflation and a faster rise in their living standards, are that in several countries less is paid in personal taxation than here, though more may be paid by both individuals and companies in contributions to social security, health and pensions, often through privately-run schemes. That means that such countries do not have to rely to the same extent as we do here on taxation to finance their social services. Indeed, if I had to single out one basic criticism of Socialist economic philosophy, it would surely be their obsession with financing out of taxation the maximum rather than the minimum, which has always meant that succeeding Socialist Governments have had to raise more rather than less tax revenue, and, of course, taxation has always caused more inflation than it has cured, quite apart from the damaging effect that it has had on what Josiah Tucker would call ""exciting the activity and ingenuity of our people"". Although high interest rates, increased indirect taxation and company taxation have all played their part in contributing to the inflation from which we are suffering today, the rate of personal taxation at almost every wage level must also be a significant contributing factor. I do not propose to argue the disincentive effect of high personal taxation although it would be quite easy to do so. The point that I am anxious to make is that it is inflationary as much in its effect upon the average wage as on the salary of the chairman of a nationalised industry. It is surely elementary that the proportion of any income taken in direct taxation reduces the value of that income and its saving potential accordingly. In Britain that proportion is higher than most other countries. Therefore, the Chancellor's proud announcement of the first cuts in income tax to be made in 11 years was a very welcome step which I hope will be followed by further sweeping cuts in personal taxation over a reasonable period. With respect to the Treasury, it has become rather old-fashioned to look upon   tax cuts as inflationary. At the moment we are suffering from a cost, not a demand, inflation—much the most uncomfortable and socially unacceptable version of the disease. So all the old economic clichés have become irrelevant in the context of the problem. But whatever forecasts we care to make about economic causes or cures, one forecast can be made with absolute certainty. If a Labour Government had been returned to power at the last election taxes would have continued to rise and our economic situation would have become progressively worse. Under this Government taxes have already been cut and our economic situation will become progressively better, so it is only the rate of progress, not its direction, with which we are concerned in this debate. To sum up, if a more equitable productivity to wage ratio is one key to a healthier economy and to controlling inflation, the Government's proposal to rationalise industrial relations is a vital and urgent step. But recent tax cuts, followed, we hope, by the abolition of S.E.T., and a reassessment of priorities in Government expenditure also by further substantial cuts in the rate of income tax, as soon as this is possible, are also essential. These three elements are interdependent and fundamental factors in moderating inflation and creating the prosperity that we all want. And if Mr. Deputy Speaker will forgive a domestic simile from one of the comparatively small number of housewives and mothers in this House, these are the missing ingredients that will allow us to bake a bigger cake from which everyone can have a larger slice.
