gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Now that two-thirds of the first 100 days of this Parliament have ended, there is one thing at any rate which I have learned about this House. That is the tremendous fund of generosity, patience and tolerance which it affords to newcomers. For myself I have no doubt that I shall draw in this my first speech very heavily upon my credits, for two reasons. The first is because I have no hope of equalling the excellence of the maiden speeches of those who have preceded me. The second is that, because this subject which we are debating today is one on which I have held the strongest views for a long time, it would be beyond my ability to treat it entirely without controversy. This is not the type of subject that one can discuss in that way. Therefore, I hope that this House will forgive me if every now and then I give the impression of speaking my own mind. What I wish to say first will, I am sure, be completely uncontroversial. It is to use this first opportunity which I have had in this House of expressing on behalf of my constituents to the former hon. Member, my predecessor in Dulwich, Mr. Robert Jenkins, the thanks which I know they owe him for the 12 years' service he gave to this House. In the course of it he made innumerable friends in the constituency and in the course of it he solved many problems for his constituents, and even if he could not solve them he always went on trying to do so. What is more, and I have a special affection for him for this reason, on certain issues—particularly the protection of the many private tenants and lessees who form the bulk of my constituents—he showed himself to be most humane. Indeed, it was very difficult on occasion to know why he was not on our benches rather than on the benches of hon. Members opposite. Although for these reasons I cannot refer to him as ""my hon. Friend"", I hope that at least I shall have the honour of referring to him as my friend. Coming to the subject under discussion today, I do not feel that I can follow my hon. Friend the Member for Nelson and Colne (Mr. Sydney Silverman), who proposed the Second Reading of this Bill, in divorcing discussion entirely from the   general principle of capital punishment. It seems to me that one cannot divide this discussion into bits. What we are doing tonight is to decide as a House of Commons whether capital punishment ought to be retained in a civilised community or not. I hope that the first thing I say about it will be so axiomatic as again to be wholly uncontroversial. It is that in a civilised community the taking of human life can be justified only by the clearest evidence of imperative need. If there were any doubt about that view, it would be illustrated by the fact that it is only for the crime of taking human life and the climes of treason and similar offences of that kind that the State today feels justified in taking human life. It would be further exemplified by the fact that over the last 100 years even that taking of human like by way of judicial punishment has decreased and decreased and decreased. In many countries it has been abolished. In this country it has been restricted, as we have heard from my hon. Friend the Member for Nelson and Colne, to a matter of two judicial executions a year. That could not be so, unless it were based upon the fundamental principle of the respect for human life which indeed occasions this very penalty. So when we ask ourselves what are the grounds, what is the imperative need, what is the clear and convincing evidence which justifies the taking of human life, the answers which are normally given come under two headings. First, there is what is called retribution. Secondly, there is what is called deterrence. Retribution, I think, today has no element of vengeance about it. What it means is that the community marks its abhorrence of the crime of taking human life by the gravity of the punishment which it exacts. In that way the community hopes that the gravity of the crime itself will be impregnated into the minds of the community. So we have the paradox that, to show the community the wickedness of taking human life, the community uses the taking of human life to do that very thing. I believe that, if we are considering the effect on the minds of the community and if we are considering it, not on a short-term basis, but on a long-term basis, the mind of the community, the philosophy of society, will be more affected by the  society which says, ""We abhor the taking of human life so much that we ourselves renounce our right to do it"", than the society which claims that right as a penalty for the crime of taking human life. On the question of deterrence, I, like my hon. Friend the Member for Nelson and Colne, claim a certain distinction, not one of which I am particularly proud, but one which is probably, if not unique, practically unique among hon. Members. I have tried and sentenced to death a number of human beings. I did so shortly after the war in the Far East. They were men who were guilty of the most bestial crimes of torture, of degradation of their fellow human beings, which led to suicide, to disease, to death by starvation, and so on. Nobody could possibly have any sympathy for those who were guilty of those crimes. But if I were asked whether the thought of capital punishment deterred them in any way at any time, the answer would be, ""Indubitably not"". To them what they did was as much done in the service of their nation, their Emperor and their ideals, as the men who were pilots of Japanese aircraft on suicide missions and who knew they were going to certain death. That is one end of the scale. At the other end of the scale there are the ordinary decent human beings who do not kill, not because there is a punishment which deters them from killing, but because it is not in their nature to kill. When I for the third night running return home at three o'clock in the morning and awaken my wife, I am sure that she desires to commit murder upon me, but it is not the thought of capital punishment which preveéts her from doing so. So we have in the middle a small group which the right hon. and learned Member for Epsom (Sir P. Rawlinson) defined as the professional criminals. We must ask ourselves whether this penalty is a necessary and imperative penalty in order to deter them, or whether some other penalty will not be equally effective. Indeed, I would submit that one must go further than that. One must ask oneself this question. Even if it be shown that this is a more effective penalty, a more effective deterrent, none the less is the difference so great as to amount to this imperative need in a civilised community to kill other human beings? On that we can only read and mark. We can only look at what those who have studied the question have said about it. The Select Committee of 1930 came down wholeheartedly in favour of abolition. Perhaps far more important was the Royal Commission of 1949–53. I know that that Royal Commission was not set up to consider the question whether the death penalty ought or ought not to be abolished. We all know that. But it is equally clear that the conclusion to which the Commission came was that there is no evidence whatever to show that the death penalty is a deterrent more effective than any other penalty which is likely to be imposed. I am sure that the right hon. and learned Member for Epsom has consulted what that Royal Commission said in paragraph 61 on the question of the professional criminal: Of more importance was the evidence of the representatives of the police and prison service. From them we received virtually unanimous evidence, in both England and Scotland, to the effect that they were convinced of the uniquely deterrent value of capital punishment in its effect on professional criminals. The Royal Commission was dealing with the very matter which the right hon. and learned Member has canvassed. In that very same paragraph the Royal Commission went on to deal with other countries where capital punishment had been abolished and reimposed and with neighbouring States in the United States which had different systems, some abolitionist, some retentionist, and compared the statistics and figures, not over a period of two or three years, but over 50 years. The Royal Commission said this: … we received no evidence that the abolition of capital punishment in other countries had in fact led to the consequences apprehended by our witnesses in this country"". In its conclusions the Commission said this: The negative conclusion we draw from the figures does not of course imply a conclusion that the deterrent effect of the death penalty cannot be greater than that of any other punishment. It means only that the figures afford no reliable evidence one way or the other. It is significant that in the memorandum which has no doubt been sent to other hon. Members by the Police Federation, a memorandum admittedly  supporting the retention of the death penalty for the murder of policemen, a memorandum admittedly putting the best case forward on that behalf, the Federation is today compelled to say this: We have no proof that the special provisions in the Homicide Act are a deterrent against murdering policemen … —a very different attitude from that which was apparently expressed in 1949–53 when it was put forward as a unique deterrent. I pray in aid also the great authority of the Chairman of that Commission, Sir Ernest Gowers, who, in his little book which repays study, ""A Life for a Life"", confessed that when he began his task he thought that the abolitionists had larger hearts than heads, and that when he ended it after four years of study of the figures all over the world he came to the conclusion that the sentiment was on the side of the retentionists and the reason on the side of the abolitionists. In the light of that, even if one cannot go so far as to say that the evidence proves beyond a doubt that this deterrent is not the most effective deterrent, is not the unique deterrent, at any rate can one possibly say that the evidence is so strong as to point to an imperative need to retain a penalty which controverts this basic principle that one ought not to take human life without an imperative need? I want to say a word or two on the question of the alternatives. Of course, there is no doubt that a life sentence for murder will create anomalies. It will create anomalies, indeed, in the sort of case which has been referred to—the mail train robbery type of case—where it can well be that one participant would be convicted of capital murder and another participant convicted of something less than that, such as armed robbery. One might well find a situation in which the former would have to be sentenced to a term of life imprisonment and the latter would be sentenced to a very long term of years. Certainly anomalies will occur. Those anomalies are due largely to the recent sentencing policy of the courts which have created these very large sentences. I am not here to argue one way or the other whether that is right or wrong, but I do say that this is the wrong time to make a fundamental change in the sentencing system. The late Government in April of this year set up a Royal Commission on penal   policy which has in its terms of reference the whole question of sentencing policy in its widest application—not only what sort of sentences should be given but what sort of people should be responsible for the length and the type of sentences, and so on. I submit that it would be entirely wrong on a limited issue of this kind for this House to prejudge the consideration and the report which that Royal Commission will be making in due course. Finally, let me say a word or two about the question of public opinion. It may well be—I do not know—that public opinion is against what I hope will be done by this House today. One cannot tell on the basis of a few figures in the national Press, but let us suppose it is so. I confess that when I entered this House 66 days ago I did so in the hope and belief that this House will always have the courage to do that which it believes to be right, even if public opinion should be against it. I received, I thought, striking confirmation of that last Friday. Last Friday this House virtually unanimously, in the face of what was probably a hostile public opinion, knowing, as we were told by the Leader of the Opposition, that no time is the right time to do it, none the less decided to improve the dignity of Members of this House. I hope that what this House was prepared to do for the dignity of this small society of which we are all members, it will not fail to do for the dignity of the greater society of which we are all equally members.
