gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I am very grateful to you, after what seems like a 40 years' wait on these benches, for allowing me to enter the promised land of a maiden speech. Had I been as diffident in my constituency as I feel now I do not suppose I should have been here to make this speech. I could not help admiring the way in which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill) managed to progress from the disquiet with which he opened his remarks, to the complete satisfaction with President Truman's policy and speech which he   expressed at the end of his discourse. A few weeks ago the right hon. Gentleman was talking here about demobilisation, and I remember that he then said that the coming of the atomic bomb ought to have speeded up demobilisation almost a hundredfold. Yet today he said that he agreed with the remarks of President Truman to the effect that a very large navy and a very large army are still necessary in this troubled world. I want to deal with President Truman's Twelve Points. I know many hon. Members who have preceded me have already spoken about them, but at the risk of repetition may I say that I consider that the speech of President Truman showed a marked degree of abstraction; like most good statesmanlike utterances, it was capable of various interpretations and misinterpretations. At best, I consider it was an example of a genuine high-minded idealism combined with complete inability to give that idealism a single concrete application, and, at worst, I cannot do better than quote the analysis of a Russian commentator to the effect that: Of the Twelve Points, seven were directed against the Soviet Union, and one was directed against the British Empire. Let me quote some of the points, one or two of which have been mentioned before. We were told that the United States seeks no territory. How does that square with the statement that there should be various bases which the United States should take over as necessary for her protection? President Truman almost denounced spheres of influence, and yet went on to demand for the Western hemisphere complete solidarity without interference from outside that hemisphere. He talked about the economic co-operation between the United States and the rest of the world, but we have only to recall how quickly the Lend-Lease plan was brought to an end the moment hostilities finished. We can recall, too, how in the United States they have demonstrated their economic strength so well that they have done away with their rationing system while a good deal of Europe is starving. They are going to maintain the largest navy in the world, and General Marshall has seconded President Truman's remarks by saying that they will maintain a very large army too. Now this talk of the largest navy in the world strikes a very  familiar note with me. I can remember having been brought up on talk about the two-Power naval standard, and I seem to remember that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford was very largely responsible for maintaining that standard in days gone by. You cannot build up any sort of permanent policy on any temporary superiority, because the two-Power naval standard of the British Empire is gone and the other naval and military superiorities are likely to go in the same way. President Truman wants to retain the secret of the atomic bomb in the United States as a ""sacred trust."" He wants everyone to trust the United States, but the United States is to trust nobody. This strikes me as being a very naive assumption and, if I dare to say so, a very unctuous assumption. This secret belongs to America for the moment, but how long will it remain her secret? I read a report in a paper the other day which said that Sweden already knew how to manufacture the atomic bomb. We know how the Soviet scientists are speeding up their researches in the Urals; we know how they are maintaining their army and air force at a high level, spending a large proportion of their national wealth on armaments. Russia is suspicious about everything; she blows hot and cold about co-operation, and she is preparing her cordon sanitaire. That was applied to her in the last war largely by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford. We remember how that cordon sanitaire was prepared, and now Russia is preparing her cordon sanitaire in reverse. Then I read a report in a newspaper recently that Poland was financing her atomic bomb research very heavily—these poor Poles who can always be guaranteed to secure the greatest possible trouble for themselves in any situation. Soon anybody will be able to make an atomic bomb in a back kitchen, and then where is the monopoly going to be? I think it is a mistake to imagine that we have several years ahead of us in which to prepare. I do not think we have several years. I think the march of science is a very rapid one. It begins slowly, then it speeds up, and then it overtakes events, almost like a volcanic eruption. Do not let us deceive ourselves, and do not let us go on drifting into another mess, which is what we are doing now. We are in the preliminary   stages of a new armaments race and, if the disaster comes, there will not be any exemption in the world. Hon. Members will remember how a few days ago we were discussing a Civil Defence Bill. We are not completely destroying our civil defences; we are maintaining our civil defences and considering new forms of civil defence against bomb attacks. Against whom are we preparing them? From whom is this danger feared? It seems to me that, if there is to be a great war between East and West, through a combination of atomic bomb and rocket we shall be largely in the position that Palestine has been in throughout history. Palestine has been trampled on from West to East, and from East to West by great armies, always being the cock-pit. It is quite likely that we may be the cock-pit in a future struggle between a great power in the East and a great power in the West, and we are particularly vulnerable, whether we take part in that struggle or not. I can see only two plans for us to follow. One is to try to persuade The United States to disclose her secrets for manufacturing the atomic bomb. The other plan—which gives the only justification for holding the bomb secret back—is to use it as a bargaining counter to enforce the establishment of the nucleus of a world government to which it will be disclosed. The forthcoming visit of the Prime Minister to the United States shows a great deal of psychological in sight. It is a much more vital event than the visits of previous Prime Ministers to foreign parts for the purpose of coming to some sort of settlement. I hope that the Prime Minister will offer to throw into the common pool, when he meets President Truman, a modification of national sovereignty for this one purpose only, as a beginning—a modification which will mean participation in a single world state which shall alone possess in the future the means of coercion. I would like to see Russia invited to help to draw up the very first draft of this new world Government. That would be a means of destroying her suspicions. This kind of situation has arisen before. I recall the time when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford made his offer to France. That was one of the bright spots in a long series of  very bright spots. The offer he made to France was one of common citizenship and of common Government, united economically and militarily. If that could be done then, why cannot the same idea be carried a stage further, and thrown open to the whole world? I believe that public opinion is ripe for some action on these lines. If we can settle that problem we shall be able to concentrate on the use of atomic energy for lightening the toil, the poverty, and the burdens of mankind.
