gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate. Having talked about the history of the House for the past 13 years, I am well aware of the privilege and responsibility which the electors of Knowsley, South have given to me. The constituency consists of four communities, which are Huyton, Halewood, Whiston and Cronton. Halewood, Whiston and Cronton were represented during the previous Parliament with distinction by my right hon. Friend the Member for Halton (Mr. Oakes). The major part of Knowsley, South is the town of Huyton, which for 33 years was represented by Sir Harold Wilson. Huyton and Harold Wilson have become synonymous. During the election campaign I read a newspaper article entitled Exit the Man who gave Huyton to the World"". The House will recall the illustrious career of my predecessor as a Cabinet Minister, Leader of the Opposition and four times Prime Minister. I confidently predict that the last achievement will not be emulated by the present Prime Minister. In my constituency Harold Wilson is remembered simply as Harold. He was as much at home locally as he was in the great offices of state. If I can win the loyalty and affection of my constituents as he did over 30 years, I shall have achieved something very real. That is perhaps the greatest tribute that I can pay to him. In my tribute to my predecessor I wish to refer to Mary Wilson, who has come to be regarded by my constituents with equal affection. If I am to maintain the loyalty of my constituents, I shall have to do something to alleviate the daunting problems that they face. It is a new constituency because of the artificial boundaries that have been redrawn and because the bulk of the constituency has been developed over the past 25 years. Knowsley, South faces a unique combination of problems. It is not an area of homeless thousands and it does not suffer from insufficient schools. There are no staple industries that are apparently outliving their usefulness. The disease which gnaws at the foundation of my constituency is not easily understood by contemporary observers of urban decay. The large council estates that characterise Knowsley, South are a graphic illustration of what Christopher Booker called the evaporation of the 20th-century dream. The attempts to rebuild our cities and to outlaw the slums in the 1950s and 1960s have seen exciting hopes evaporate into the reality of estates that are monotonous labyrinths, bleak, grimly regimented and dehumanising. That is not to deny that we have made progress. To do so would be absurdly ungenerous as well as historically inaccurate. I wish to pay tribute to my local authority in attempting the Herculean task of putting right the wrongs with ever-diminishing resources. The stark fact is that local authorities lack the resources to tackle the work that must be done. In 1979 Knowsley received £6·5 million in Housing Act subsidies. This year the figure is nil. Total rebates and subsidies this year are a third of what they were in 1979. Dry statistics may often be meaningless, but the clear and unmistakeable message that I bring to the Government is that large housing estates will inevitably remain centres of acute malaise as long as resources for their improvement are withheld. I am talking about ordinary people whose morale is being sapped by such depressing and disheartening matters as vandalism, graffiti, litter and the general neglect that overlies the basic inadequacy of the design of our estates. One of the most urgent, obvious and, perhaps, major problems in housing in my constituency in terms of scale is repairs. The depressing fact is that physical neglect has been intensified by excessive wear and tear. We shall never improve the morale of our tenants if the Government starve local authorities of resources to maintain their properties and environment in reasonable repair. Unless we do that, the definition of a problem estate will be a self-fulfilling prophecy. It is no use calling for community responsibility as community spirit will be reduced to a hopeless sense of powerlessness. Isolated decay and increasingly delinquent neighbourhoods are being formed and tenants will become increasingly stereotyped and self-selective. Estates become real problems as that is how they are regarded since the Government have lacked the imagination to tackle the problem at source. A major factor destroying morale in Knowsley, South is that inadequate housing compounds the felony of unemployment. The failure to provide job opportunities in   areas such as mine has meant that we have shifted to a new location the social problems we hoped to solve by building the estates in the first place. Several parts of my constituency have unemployment levels far above even the Merseyside average. With migration and a lack of training provision, the skill structure of some of our communities is even more unbalanced and certain areas are becoming unemployment ghettos. The conditions and circumstances to be found in my constituency derive from a multiplicity of factors, each one exacerbating the other. If housing provision is inadequate, coupled with high unemployment, what chance have our schools to achieve excellence or to create the ethos in which excellence is sought, what chance is there of making any significant improvement in the physical and mental health of those who must live with the everyday pressures of such deprivation, and how can we expect the police and the public together to produce civilised standards of what is euphemistically called law and order? In Knowsley, South we are seeing what has been called dynamic poverty, not poverty in the sense of lack of money—although that is manifest in its acutest form—but poverty of the environment, of facilities and of recreation. It is poverty of all those things that make life worth living, whether or not one has money. I am under no illusion that my maiden speech will hit the national headlines, but unless the Government attend to problems such as those in Knowsley, South, those problems assuredly will hit the national headlines of their own accord. In 1972, a Shelter report stated: If urban society does not alleviate the despair of individuals in our urban junkyards, it will surely reap the retribution it deserves"". At best the Gracious Speech demonstrates that the Government lack the imagination to comprehend the enormity of the problem we face. My constituents are not seeking some historic act of class revenge. They are not asking for the barricades to be erected. They are simply saying that society seems to have doled out to them a pretty rotten fate — and since 1979 ""dole"" has been the operative word. The people of Knowsley, South are not asking for the moon. They simply want a fair share of the national wealth, and desperately want to contribute constructively to increasing that national wealth. In other words, they want jobs. In that very reasonable ambition, the interests of the more prosperous regions should be just as deep as ours, not simply out of a sense of natural justice, but out of a sense of the national cost that will have to be paid if areas such as mine are ignored much longer.
