gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you at the outset, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me an opportunity to speak in a debate on a subject with which I have been concerned for a number of years, and especially in the area covered by my constituency. In the past week I have been given considerable help and advice by hon. Members on both sides, all friendly and helpful, if sometimes a little contradictory. Indeed, I feel that if I were to try to make a speech taking into account all the advice given to me in the past week, I should be likely to deliver a collection of snippets which would not be readily comprehensible to many hon. Members. I have come to the conclusion that the best advice that I ever had was that given to me many years ago by my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, Erdington (Mr. Silverman), part of whose old constituency of Aston I now have the pleasure and honour to represent after parliamentary reorganisation. At a time when I was a new and very green member of the local authority for his area, he said to me ""Take up issues in which you believe, be clear and concise, and remember that humbug will always be found out."" Not being perfect, I have not, I think, always been able to live up to that, but it remains the precept which I have found to be the truest of all ever given to me. I wish therefore to speak for a few minutes on an issue in which I believe very strongly, an issue which concerns many of my constituents in Handsworth as well as many individuals living in inner area constituencies in many other large cities. One or two hon. Members have suggested that perhaps there is some particular problem in our inner cities   which is in no way connected with the history of this country. I suggest that the problems of the inner cities stem straight from the inheritance of the Industrial Revolution, that heyday of untrammelled free enterprise which left a legacy of miserable housing, worse environment and considerable ill health to the descendants of those who created its wealth. Most of the back-to-back housing and communal wash-houses and toilets are gone, at least from Birmingham, but we still have the cramped streets, the overcrowding, the damp and crumbling century-old houses, and there are still the children who die earlier and more quickly than do children in the outer suburbs. There are still the poorer health care facilities. There is still the lack of any reasonable sports facilities and many other amenities, together with a mass of other deficiencies inherited from the past century and before. We have just heard from the hon. Member for Liverpool, Wavertree (Mr. Steen) a comprehensive list of the ideas which have been brought forward and tried by successive Governments over the past 10 to 15 years. From what I have heard today I should not have quite recognised the situation in my part of the country, where there has been at any rate a measure of inter-party agreement on urban renewal policies over the past decade and where we now have money being spent on a large range of local needs—housing grants, sports halls, the reclamation of derelict land and so on. This, I suggest, is a direction in which there must be a considerable injection of public money, for without it the derelict land will not be reclaimed. We have seen this happening. Something is now being done with public money, with three-party support, in the West Midlands, and without that support neither industry nor housing will come back to the derelict land. This money, with the money which we are trying to use to encourage industry to come back to the inner areas, is being spent together with the local authorities, but we must not forget the possibility of joint financing between the health authorities and the local authorities, which can—though I do not think that much has been done yet—produce much-needed help for the young and the old as well as for the sick. None of us knows what the result of present policies will be, but at least in my part of the country, in the inner city of Birmingham, there is a tentative though none the less visible improvement, and there is, even more, an increase in hope in some of the crumbling back streets. But we are worried in Handsworth, and I am sure that hon. Members and their constituents elsewhere in the country are worried, too. Many people in the inner cities, through no choice or fault of theirs, live on the poverty line or below it, whether employed or not, and we are worried about precisely what will be the effect of the much-vaunted list of public expenditure cuts of which we have heard. Will there be cuts in the rate support grant? That sounded more than possible from what the Secretary of State said today. If there is a cut in the rate support grant, either there has to be an increase in the rate levied or there will be less money for the environment, less money for home helps and services for the elderly, less money for the schools in which our children learn and work, less money for the district nursing services, and even less money to sweep our roads, let alone to repair the holes in them. It seems to me that there is a clear choice before the Government and the House. Are we prepared to continue to fund our inner city renewal policy as a public commitment and as a matter of concern to the nation as a whole? We hear of proposals for fee-paying for a small proportion of our children and for the retention of the 11-plus. In an area such as the one which I represent, and where I live, the chance of children passing highly selective tests at an early age is minimal. We know what this will mean. Unless more money is put in, there will be less for our schools and less opportunity for the great majority of our children. We hear of greater opportunities for people to pay for their own health care. That is no great consolation to people in the inner city areas, to those who have to contend with the problem of long waiting lists and poor provision. We hear of tax reductions, and many of us wonder what difference they will make when we do not pay tax now or pay very little even if we are in work. We hear of support for industry and services where we work being phased out,   and for many of those whom I represent the future seems bleaker and more desperate than it has seemed in the past. There is no possibility that the quality of life in our inner cities can be improved without a massive commitment from, I would hope, both sides of the House. That commitment must include expenditure, and it must be made on behalf of the rest of the nation. Those of us who represent such areas will continue fighting for them both individually and collectively. I hope that the Government as well as the Opposition will realise that it is not a commitment that the rest of the nation dare neglect. The commitment is based on concern for those living in such areas and in the interests of the well-being of the country as a whole.
