gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in this important Budget debate. I begin by thanking the Officers and Members who have helped me in my first few weeks here. I should like to live through the last few thrilling weeks again without having to contend with the fatigue which follows a hard-fought election campaign. I enjoyed my battle at Belper, but I was sorry that my victory was at the expense of Roderick MacFarquhar, a man of great intellectual ability and an acknowledged world expert on Chinese affairs. His dedication to the constituency was sincere and widely acknowledged. I hope that he will have an opportunity to use his undoubted talents to the full, and I wish him well in future. I must also mention Roderick MacFarquhar's immediate predecessors, who both contributed greatly to my victory at Belper. Geoffrey Stewart-Smith blazed a trail for me when he won the seat in 1970. He left behind a good name both for himself and for the Conservative Party. Of course the name of Lord George-Brown will always be synonymous with Belper. Wherever I go in the constituency he is always spoken of with affection and respect. During the recent election campaign Lord George-Brown advised Labour loyalists to turn away from a lifetime's allegiance because of his real concern for the freedom of the individual. I know that his words were heeded in Derbyshire. Everyone remembers Lord George-Brown's moving speech at the count of 1970, when he spoke of his great love for the constituency. I can understand his feelings. Belper is a most beautiful constituency—and I cannot single out any particular community. Since coming to live in Derbyshire I have grown to respect and admire the down-to-earth and hard-working approach to life of its people. They are privileged to live in such green and pleasant surroundings, just as I am privileged to be their Member of Parliament and Derbyshire's first woman MP. This year Derbyshire is holding a festival throughout the summer until October, designed to tell the rest of the   country what a good place Derbyshire is to live and work in. Tourists are now being attracted to our area in ever-increasing numbers. My work will be particularly stimulating and interesting because Belper is virtually a microcosm of the United Kingdom, containing as it does two towns with real strength of character, many delightful villages and beautiful stretches of countryside. The northern part of my constituency, which centres on Belper town, has a long tradition of success in textiles, engineering, chemicals and pottery and is deservedly one of the most prosperous areas in the coutnry. Many of my constituents are employed by British Rail and Rolls-Royce at Derby. When my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry visited the constituency last year, he referred to the northern area of Belper as a paradise, because unemployment is almost non-existent. The southern portion of my constituency centres on the town of Swadlincote, which was primarily and until recently the centre of a mining area. Because of its wonderful work force and facilities it has been successful in attracting a diversity of new industry, in addition to carrying on its traditional role. Swadlincote is also a commuter area for Burton-on-Trent, with its breweries, tyre production and other important industries. Unemployment in the Swadlincote area is a constant source of concern to me. I therefore welcome the fact that the Budget proposals will concentrate help on and provide assistance only to those areas of exceptionally high un-employment. Swadlincote has been at a distinct disadvantage, because in the past a great proportion of the country benefited unfairly from the development policies of the previous Government, while Swadlincote did not qualify for any regional development grant. I am convinced that the whole of my constituency, and the Swadlincote area in particular, will benefit enormously from the Chancellor's proposed new system of allocation of employment support. Farmers in my constituency will welcome the Chancellor's decision to make changes in capital taxation, although they will not be carried out immediately. One of the best features of my constituency is the high proportion of small business enterprises, for this is a great area for initiative and enterprise; there is no region that contains a greater diversity of skills or has a greater history of innovation. I am sure that there will be great benefit in the long term from the Chancellor's taxation policies, designed as they are to encourage initiative and investment. As a dental surgeon I am particularly interested in the provision of health facilities. I am glad that we have been reassured this afternoon that there will be no cuts in the Health Service budget. The southern half of my constituency is part of the West Midlands health authority and is in the catchment area of Burton general hospital. Indeed, a third of the patients using that hospital live in my constituency, while the north is catered for by the Trent regional health authority and patients use the facilities of the Derbyshire Royal infirmary. Both those hospitals do excellent work and have a high reputation, but the geriatric provision for people in the north leaves much to be desired, because there is an acute shortage of beds. The whole area relies for many of its services on Derbyshire county council. I know that the social service department, because of the shortage of hospital provision for the elderly, coupled with the dreadful legacy of outdated old people's homes, is concerned about this aspect of its work. I am aware, of course, that there is a great need to cut public spending so as to release resources for private industry and that, when a large proportion of our money is spent for us by local and central Government, there is an underlying threat to our freedom. The recent general election showed that the British people realise that the weight of taxation bears unfairly on those who are prepared to take responsibility and to train for special skills. The Chancellor therefore spoke for everyone when he expressed the need for a new beginning. However, I should like to point out to the Chancellor and to the Secretary of State for the Environment that in May 1977 the people of Derbyshire voted for a new beginning. The Conservative Party took control of the county council then, and within three   months undertook a complete review of the council's budget. The cumulative savings arising from the review of spending for 1977–78 and 1978–79 amounted to £2·4 million. The social service department alone, in spite of the difficulties that I have mentioned, made cuts of £440,000. Derbyshire county council has kept down the rates and cut waste. The council has managed to keep down costs by careful housekeeping and stringent economies and has reduced staff by natural wastage. Conservative-controlled councils such as Derbyshire have been less profligate than others, having faced the fact that, in the national interest, there must be a temporary halt to spending and expansion until dynamism is restored to industry. Councils such as Derbyshire realise that the restraint on public spending will have to remain for a long period, yet we still hear of Labour-controlled authorities proposing to waste money on expensive and unnecessary frills. I ask that the people who had the good sense to vote Conservative in 1977 and who endured immediate cuts in public spending in their own areas should not be penalised for having behaved in this most sensible and patriotic way. I know that the people in my constituency will rise to the new challenge and take advantage of the opportunities that the Chancellor has given them to restore and rekindle the spirit of enterprise in our great nation.
