gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Sir Herbert, for making it possible for me to make my maiden speech to this Committee, and I ask hon. Members to show their customary indulgence on this occasion. I am extremely proud to be the new Member for Halifax. but I am also conscious of the many predecessors I follow in this capacity. The most illustrious of these was John Henry Whiteley, Speaker of this House from 1921 to 1928, born and bred in Halifax. On his retirement, the then Leader of the Opposition, Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, said: You have shown us in a most remarkable way how to be patient and courteous without being lax; how to be strict and severe without being mechanical and formal; … how gentleness can rule and how persuasiveness can subdue.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 19th June, 1928; Vol. 218, c. 1597.] I humbly submit that as a new Member of this House I can do worse than emulate my predecessor. I should like also to pay tribute to my two more immediate predecessors who for many years sat in this House, Dryden Brook, who sat on these benches, and Maurice Macmillan, who sat with hon. Members who are on the benches opposite. My constituency of Halifax is probably best known as a textile town. In fact, the town weaves one-seventh of the world's worsted yarn. It has 100 different industries, but it is because I represent the people of Halifax that I am very proud today to speak in support of the Budget's pension proposals. The Budget shows, if nothing else, that this Government believe that people do matter. In spite of a grave economic situation, humane End just measures have been given priority in the first few weeks of this Government. Halifax, along with several other parts of the West Riding of Yorkshire, has an unusually large proportion of retired people. They will welcome the Budget. I urge the Government to make an annual review of the retirement pension. This is imperative, for two reasons. The first reason is that the pension must always be related to the cost of living. Social justice means the relating of income to need. The second reason is that the pension must be linked to national average earnings so that pensioners share in national prosperity. I welcome the demise of the 10s. widow, but I would also urge that the Government soon alter the present illogical scheme for widows' pensions so that all widows are treated similarly, because, however they are widowed, the problems and difficulties of widows are the same. It is a fact that women are living longer than men. I will not go into the reasons for that in this Committee, but 60 per cent. of all old people over 65 are women. This is a fact that must be faced. It is quite clear that widows' pensions will form a major part of any social security scheme that the Government introduce in the future. May I express, too, the hope that in the spring Budget the same help will be given to single women with dependants? These women are a vast unsung army with no trade union to represent them. Many of them have one parent or two elderly parents to look after, sometimes sick parents, and at the same time they go out and do a full-time job of work. A fallacious argument often put against the case for equal pay is that women have no dependants. These women definitely do. I hope that the Government will not forget them in the spring. I ask my right hon. Friends the Chancellors of the Exchequer and the Minister of Health to give urgent consideration to taking the charges off prescriptions as soon as possible. This would be a positive step towards rescuscitating the National Health Service, which has been starved and neglected in the last 13 years. Two shillings for a prescription may seem a mere trifle to many hon. Members, but there are thousands of housewives with families who think not in terms of shillings but in terms of pennies when they go out shopping and budgeting. The chronic sick who may have to pay for six   or eight items a week on a prescription are waiting for this measure to be introduced. As a doctor, I frequently write prescriptions of many items for retired people and often they say to me, ""Will you not take one of those items off?"" Everyone will realise that that is a question to which it is very difficult to respond. Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition implied the existence of a relationship between free prescriptions and the issue of Concord. I am at a loss to see this relationship. Aneurin Bevan said that the National Health Service was at the heart of politics. It certainly has nothing whatever to do with the British aircraft industry. It could, however, benefit from a few prestige projects. Before the charges are removed, I hope that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will consider how the excessive profits which their removal will yield to the 141 private drugs firms which exist because of the increased use of drugs can be directed towards the Treasury. I am aware that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster has been studying this matter in his capacity as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee. Meanwhile, doctors can play their part by prescribing from the National Formulary, wherever it is possible to do so. Preventive medicine, which we all aim at, means encouraging people to seek medical advice, not only when they are ill, but when they think they are ill. It is for doctors, not a prescription charge, to sort out the malingerers. We cannot afford to put a premium on health as we are doing at the moment. I conclude by thanking the Committee for its attention and by hoping that I shall have the opportunity to address it on a future occasion.
