gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of hon. Members, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, because I must ask the House to listen to another maiden speech. I come from Bootle and, as the hon. Member for Liverpool, Scotland (Mr. Logan) will tell you, Bootle is the best part of Liverpool. The largest and most important docks on Merseyside are in the borders of my town, which is in a great industrial part of Lancashire. I am not so much concerned about saying such things as about trying to be non-controversial when I come from a town like Bootle, where every foot of the road I have trodden has been contested at one time or another. However, I can promise the House that whatever I say will be said without bitterness or rancour. In 1945 and 1946, when we came back from the war, we found a town which   had suffered greatly from bombing, dislocation of industry and all the other things which hon. Members know so well. Examining the social statistics of my town, I found that we had terrible figures for tuberculosis and infant and maternal mortality; we were the champions of the British Isles in these matters. More people were suffering from and dying from tuberculosis in Bootle than anywhere else. We attracted the attention of the national Press in a semi-castigation of our efforts because of our high infantile mortality. We have made efforts to combat this, and I want to pay my respects to successive Governments in saying that we have received help of considerable dimensions—and we need it. The whole of our atmosphere is one of social and industrial unrest. I have some comments to make on the social aspect, but before I do that I want to say something about the industrial unrest existing on Merseyside. I shall not enter the field of controversy in this matter, as we have been requested not to do. I have been a trade unionist for many years. My family must have 80 years' of public service and 100 years' of trade unionism to date. If I were asked what was wrong with industry today, I should say that in the depression years our people were dehumanised by poverty, and, also, there is a possibility that we shall become depersonalised in this day of full employment. We are entitled to full employment. It is neither the Conservative Party nor the Labour Party which has given us the right to full employment. I believe that I was made to the image and likeness of God, and that it was God who gave me the right to work. It did not come from Governments. The duty of government is to bring about a greater degree of social justice in industry and a greater human personalisation for everyone in industry. If this matter were examined by experts, there would be a greater possibility of bringing into industry in the very near future the peace that we all desire so very greatly. Men are ""fed up"" with being economic ciphers and units of production. I come from a big family; there were ten of us. I object to anybody saying that I am a participant in class warfare. It was with great regret that I heard such  a remark as that on my first day in this House. I do not believe in class warfare at all, but I was born into class warfare. I think it is becoming a matter for the people who have more of this world's goods to stop the class warfare rather than to talk about it to those who have less of the world's goods. I am saying this so that hon. Members may understand the sort of people I represent. They are ordinary, poor working-class people, and I understand my own town and my own people fairly well. I have a considerable knowledge of the housing situation. I appeal to whatever Government happen to be in power to build houses for families and to raise existing standards. Family life is the very essence and basis of our nation, and a better type of house should be built now that some of the tremendous difficulties of the post-war years have been overcome. I have brought the difficulties of my own people with me, and I want to say something about them. Sixty houses to an acre cannot be endured in this age. I hear people talking about atomic power, nuclear fission, and so on, but there are people in the town where I was born who have not yet had the pleasure of seeing hot water running out of a tap. It is just as well for some of us to remember that now and then. Therefore, in spite of the help that we have had—and we have had a considerable amount—I suggest that legislation to deal with slum clearance should be hastened, and that local authorities should be given power to ensure that people with a foreknowledge of what is likely to happen are not selling houses in clearance areas at great profit. I want to make a special appeal. Recently, I had the difficult task of trying to retain possession of a house for a woman who had had a clear rent book for 47 years. Such things as this have been spoken about before. What immorality they represent! The woman had lived a decent family life in the house for 47 years. Her only boy was killed at Caen. Her husband died, and at the very time of her bereavement she was evicted from the house. Does that action mirror the sentiments of any decent person in this House or in the country? Indeed, it does not. Responsibility for these matters must be clarified; apart from the tremendous burden placed upon local authorities, the morality of these things must be examined. People are becoming tired of other people talking about laws. Some of us are beginning to think that laws are just a recognition of the dominant force, and if the dominant force is not a moral force the law becomes immoral. I suggest that the law in this respect is completely immoral. Let us try to make housing the social service which it should be in this great country of social service which is the envy of the world. Let us give local authorities money at a more reasonable rate, for there is a tremendous burden upon them. The waterfront of Bootle is occupied by docks, which are derated. I want, briefly, to give the House some figures to show the position of a town such as ours which is trying to face great educational, social and industrial problems when denuded of more than a quarter of its rateable value. Bootle's net annual value is £819,680, its rateable value is £590,163, and its loss on derating is £229,517, a figure which represents 28 per cent. of the net annual value. Fifty per cent. of this loss is due to the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board. In these days no one would say that this Board is not a very thriving and flourishing concern. Its net annual value is £167,404, but its rateable value is £48,562. The loss by derating is £118,842, or 71 per cent. of the net annual value of the dock estate. Are we to have no help? We had none after the war, when our town was bombed and knocked about by the enemy. There are other towns like Bootle. The present Foreign Secretary, when he was Minister of Housing and Local Government, told me at Southport on one occasion that there were other towns like Bootle. We received a considerable amount of help from him. We have received help from other Governments. There are other towns like Bootle and my appeal is for consideration at all times for all the towns which are carrying so much of the country's burden.
