gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In addressing the House this evening for the first time, I must say that it is a great honour to represent the people of Swindon on behalf of the Conservative party. It will help hon. Members if they understand that, although the numbers behind the name have changed, the name has not—much to the satisfaction of all my constituents. There have been two additions to the constituency—parts of the constituencies of Chippenham and Devizes. I thank the hon. Members who represented those constituencies for their custodianship of the electors who were transferred to me. I welcome them to the new and enlarged constituency of Swindon. They are already becoming used to being a part of it. My principal task is to pay a warm tribute to the work of my main predecessor, Mr. David Stoddart, who is no longer a Member of the House. He was well respected. I was under no illusions about the task of trying to oust him. During his 13 years as a Member he became highly respected within his constituency. He was also well respected in the House, and will be much missed by the Opposition. Swindon is the largest part of the borough of Thamesdown. Swindonians still think of themselves as living and working in Swindon and find it difficult, even after nine years, to regard themselves as Thamesdownians. I doubt that they ever will. Swindon is reputed to be the fastest growing area in western Europe—I do not know whether that story is true, but it is widely circulated in Swindon. Every year new houses are built in staggering numbers, and new jobs are being created. However, some problems accompany the rapid growth of an area such as this. In the past, industrial and heavy engineering activity has predominated in the constituency. This has shrunk in importance but it remains a dominant feature. One thinks of British Leyland's factory and especially of the British Rail engineering works. Ever since Brunel on his journey west stopped in Swindon and saw it as an appropriate place, half way between London and south Wales, to build an engineering works, Swindon has been a railway town,  and it remains so to this day. This is clear from the atmosphere of the town, which breathes railways, and the museum, which records the fine traditions of the past. There is a railway village of cottages built in the middle of the last century for railway workers. As the representative of Swindon, I shall be keen to ensure that the town maintains its pride in the railway industry. I shall look for support from Members on both sides of the House to ensure that that remains the case. However, there is change in Swindon, as in so many parts of the country. There is a growth in the number of company head offices, new small businesses, warehousing and high technology industries all of which bring new employment to the town. Plessey has been in the town for a number of years and recently Intel—an important and, I am sure permanent, visitor — has arrived from America. One of the earliest of the local cable TV services has served the town for the past decade and Swindon Viewpoint is the oldest community access television service in the United Kingdom. Swindon is an exciting town to represent. The importance to Swindon of good communications must be plain to anyone, which is why the constituency shows great interest in the Second Reading of the Telecommunication Bill and why I have chosen to speak tonight. It is not, however, the only reason, because, although there have already been 200 hours of debate on the subject, there must be more to be said. I must declare an interest, because until recently I was employed by British Telecom. I should not like to suggest that the reason for the recent general election was to enable me to take my place on these Benches to contribute to the discussions on this legislation—I have no doubt that there were other reasons—but that happy coincidence has enabled me to contribute to the debate tonight and perhaps in the future. A number of briefs have been used by right hon. and hon. Members to support their arguments. Their views depend upon which brief is used. I have the briefs that some Opposition Members have used, from which it is clear that the end of the world is nigh. It is clear from the briefs held by some of my right hon. and hon. Friends that the Bill is an exciting new beginning. The truth will fall somewhere between the two extremes. While there will be support for the Bill's principles, hon. Members on both sides of the House have expressed anxiety about some of the Bill's detail, which has still to be discussed and decided. It is important to remind ourselves that the Bill is about telecommunications and the telecommunications industry and not solely about British Telecom. The mere mention of the words ""competition"" and ""privatisation"" have had a galvanising effect upon those who work in BT. I have watched the dedication and enthusiasm shown by the staff of the organisation over the past year or two to bring BT to the point where it can compete in the freer atmosphere that is to come. I have no doubt that that freer atmosphere will stimulate the entire industry to success. BT's success will depend largely upon the licence which we have still to see in its full draft form. The House should insist that there must be not just a fair opportunity for those new firms to be successful, but fairness for BT plc also. Those who have the duty of piloting this legislation through the House will want to be certain that that fairness extends to all who are concerned in the future. The social services element in telecommunications is vital. I see no reason why an effective balance should not be achieved through the use of access charges, but we must wait to see what is in the mind of the Government. The right balance can be obtained between the interests of the consumer, the customer, the staff and the shareholders in the future of a privatised BT. One thing must be clear—if we are not successful in achieving that right and fair balance, the job of flotation of the new company will be severely imperilled. It is our duty to ensure that that message is got across. There is understandable anxiety, among both residential customers and the staff of BT, and their interests should be considered. The customers will want to know what pricing policy is to be pursued, what control is to be exercised and whether the changes in the Government's mind will lead to higher prices. There is no reason for their worst fears. As for the staff of BT, the expansion of the industry that should naturally follow this Bill must lead to more jobs in telecommunications and not fewer. The political scaremongering has fed upon itself and many people in the industry now genuinely fear for their jobs. As some of my hon. Friends have said, the Government's case must be put across firmly to ensure that that fear is unjustified. The structure for the regulation and approval of equipment must be staffed quickly and adequately to ensure that there is no wasteful or extensive delay in the approval of equipment and the setting up of the new organisation. Otherwise, an opportunity will be lost, and the flotation of the company will be damaged. With those few concerns, I have pleasure in supporting the principle of the Bill.
