gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am sure that nobody will be surprised when I say that at this moment I am torn by wildly conflicting emotions. I am very pleased and proud to have become a Member of this House, yet I am conscious of the fact that I am here only as a result of one of the greatest tragedies to have hit political life in this country for many years. Brian O'Malley was not only an outstanding Member of Parliament and a most talented and capable Minister, but he was a man who was much loved in his constituency. He was a man of whom I am proud to have been a personal friend for many years. Although we in the constituency mourn his death, we know that our grief is shared by hon. Members on both sides of the House. Although Brian O'Malley has now gone from the scene, I must, however inadequately, try to take his place. On my second day in this House, when I was hardly in a position to do anything about it, the right hon. and learned Member for Hertfordshire, East (Sir D. Walker-Smith) had some rather sarcastic   comments to make about my constituency, and indeed about me. He referred, in a slightly obscure way, to a by-election which, he said, took place in the 1920s. I believe that he may have been referring to the by-election that took place in 1933. I shall be happy to help him with his history, if not with his politics. We have had three by-elections in Rotherham in a period of 43 years, and it is my fervent hope that we shall not have any more. I shall try to observe the convention of non-controversiality in speaking briefly on the subject of pay and prices policy. However, that may be a little difficult, because I am totally committed to the agreement worked out between the Government and the trade union movement, although I understand that some hon. Members are not quite so committed. I believe that, with the successful implementation of a policy of that kind, there is every hope of defeating the great evils of inflation and unemployment. Without it, there is none. I am not suggesting that the agreement by itself provides the solution, but I believe that it will make a solution possible. In the recent by-election campaign I laid great stress on the importance of the agreement. Whatever interpretation may be put on the size of my majority by the right hon. and learned Member for Hertfordshire, East, or indeed by the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mrs. Oppenheim) in her speech today, the fact is that we won—and I am here to prove it. Indeed, I secured more votes than all the other five candidates put together, which is more than the right hon. and learned Member for Hertfordshire, East can say about his majority at the last election. I wish to take this opportunity to press one main point on the Government. If and when we return to a position that is regarded nationally as one of full employment, let nobody imagine that we can forget the regional problem. Unemployment has been like a tide: the tide comes in, but when it goes out it leaves behind deep pools on the beach. I know that in my constituency and in other parts of South Yorkshire, as indeed in other regions, many of these pools of unemployment have been with us for far too long. They are basically due not to any temporary trade recession, but to changes  in the employment structure of our traditional local industries. If and when the national unemployment figure returns to something like 1 or 1½ per cent., it will still be 4 or 5 per cent., or even more, in areas such as mine unless full use is made in the next year of the opportunity to prepare policies that will ensure the injection of massive amounts of capital investment into new growth industries to provide thousands of new jobs in those areas. Within the area that is now the Metropolitan borough of Rotherham, of which my constituency is part, we have lost about 16,000 jobs in the coal and steel industries in the process of making those industries more productive. We have gained about 8,000 jobs in other industries and the Rotherham Area Development Council, of which I have been chairman since its formation, can claim some credit for that. But the fact remains that we have suffered a severe net loss of employment opportunities. Enormous financial inducements to private industry to develop in the assisted areas have failed to solve the regional problem. It is now manifestly obvious that only public intervention on a vast scale can get rid of this problem of regional unemployment. If trade unionists in Rotherham and elsewhere are to exercise restraint in their completely justifiable wage demands, they are entitled to expect in return not only that their own jobs will remain secure but that their sons and daughters will be able to get employment when they leave school. Youngsters last year in many parts of the country—certainly in mine—faced very severe problems, and the prospects for those leaving school this year are bleak indeed. This is not only demoralising for the young people themselves. It is creating long-term problems for the country. The reluctance of many firms to set on apprentices is sowing the seeds of another shortage of skilled labour. Areas such as mine have borne more than their fair share of sacrifice in the past—sacrifice in terms of environmental damage, unemployment and industrial pollution. This time, in return for our support of the pay policy, we want to see some real evidence that the Government will take the regional problems seriously and will take positive steps to solve them once and for all.
