gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will bear with me if in this my maiden speech I say a few words about my constituency. I have the honour to represent the constituency of Epping, which has been represented here by many notable figures in the past. In the period 1945–50, Mrs. Leah Manning represented Epping and was much loved in the House and in her constituency. In the last Parliament and for some time previously, Mr. Graeme Finlay was the Member for Epping. He was assiduous in his duties and a very fair opponent, and, despite our obvious political differences, a man for whom I have the greatest respect—a respect which I am sure is shared by hon. Members on both sides. My constituency is unusual in that it has the third largest electorate in the country. I represent nearly 95,000 electors here, and the electorate lives in five separate areas—three urban districts, those of Harlow, Epping and Waltham Holy Cross; part of the Epping and Ongar Rural Districts, and part of the Greater London Borough of Waltham Forest Hon. Members will see that in  those circumstances the work involved in representing so many people is vast. The most pronounced feature of my constituency is the south-east drift. People are coming into the constituency every week from the high unemployment areas, and they are also moving out from London, particularly into Harlow New Town. The result is that those people who are coming in search of work, in offices, factories and laboratories, are in search of houses, too, and housing is a major problem in the constituency. Although the Epping constituency is regarded as part of the affluent South, some of the worst slums that I have ever seen exist in this area. These are rural slums, places in which people are forced to live where there is no sanitation and no refuse collection. They live in old buses and shacks, in caravans, and in one case even in a tent. This is the result of the tremendous pressure which is being built up on housing accommodation as a result of the south-east drift. This pressure has produced a vast increase in the price of homes whether they are for renting or for sale. The 1957 Rent Act, in opening much privately rented accommodation to the same free-for-all as has prevailed in the sale of houses, removed the defence from an important section of the community. The result is that since the coming into force of the 1957 Act the older, poorer and less fortunate members of my constituency have continued to be displaced. In the many cases of eviction which have occurred one is apt to overlook the human problem involved; to regard it all as a matter of numbers. But statistics are no measure of the mental suffering caused to those who are evicted. I remember a case with which I dealt some years ago of a lady aged 80 who had lived in her house for nearly 56 years. She was turned out of it and was forced to live in temporary accommodation for six years before getting other accommodation from the local council. Another case with which I am dealing at present concerns a woman of 70 who has lived in her house for 37 years. The owner recently died and his son is anxious to sell the property and is, therefore, seeking to evict her. These people come to me in great distress, often with tears in their eyes, and it is because of my experience of these   things that I know that any Measure which inflicts sufferings of this description on members of the community cannot be in the best interests of the country. I could cite other cases but I would rather hon. Members consider what dance there is for people in the circumstances I have described to obtain alternative accommodation in my constituency. It is possible, naturally, to rent a furnished house—that is, if one can afford £6, £9 or more a week. They are the usual rents. Otherwise, the sky is the limit. On the other hand, it is possible to buy property, although few houses worth living in are available at under £4,000. How can the sort of old person about whom I have been speaking rent or purchase such property? It is for these people, and others, that the Bill offers hope. I welcome it as such, although I recognise that it is a holding operation pending further action. I hope that we can sweep away the 1957 Act and all the ramifications which flow from it. Another section of the community, agricultural workers, will be very much affected by the Bill. It is a scandalous state of affairs that the tied cottage should have survived down to the middle of the twentieth century. When tenancy is a condition of service I maintain that one has the essence of feudalism and I would remind hon. Members opposite that many farmers have evicted tenants from tied cottages and have subsequently sold the property because farm mechanisation has meant that not so much labour is required. The tied cottage system has vested great power in the hands of farmers to coerce their tenants. This system is a denial of the ordinary freedom of life, and to illustrate this I will relate an incident which occurred in my constituency during the election. I was canvassing the people living in a tied cottage. In a window of the cottage was displayed a poster belonging to my opponent. I discovered that that poster had been put there in deference to the wishes of the owner of the cottage and not the people living in the cottage, who in any case intended to vote for me, which they did. The Bill offers some hope for people in tied cottages, and it is worth considering what legal steps are available  to these tenants at present. Their cases are taken through either the magistrates court or the high court. Magistrates have no discretion to delay eviction for longer than 30 days and the high court rarely exercises its power. In putting this valuable power in the hands of county courts, the Bill will enable these courts to extend the period of grace for tenants to 12 months. Clause 3(1,b) excludes from benefit tenants already enjoying the protection of the Rent Act. Can these people be evicted if their employment comes to an end? If so, it would seem that the Bill is likely to create two classes of tied cottage tenant. Yesterday I saw a document issued by the National Farmers' Union stating that the number of cases of unreasonable hardship to farm workers has been negligible. That is nonsense. Cases of hardship arise in my constituency monthly, and it must be remembered that a farm worker who is evicted cannot afford on his wages to buy property in the area; and the local rural district council imposes a five-year residential qualification before anyone can be placed on the housing list. In many cases, the only alternative for the evicted person is to make an effort to obtain an alternative job with another tied cottage. Often he must leave his wife and family, who are moved into an appalling hostel. One of these is run by the county council at Hornchurch. In such cases the husband is separated from his wife and family until he is able to make other arrangements. What a disgrace to think that this state of affairs should be allowed to prevail in this enlightened age; that a whole family should be subjected to this sort of torture, often with devastating results on the children and the whole future of the family. I am not describing cases about which I have heard but those which I have seen. I have seen a family's entire belongings after they have been pulled out of the house, piled up on the side of the road and covered with a tarpaulin. Is it always the fault of tied cottage occupants when they are evicted? To answer this I will quote the case of such an occupant to illustrate how it may certainly not be their fault. Today a High Court writ is being served on a   man who some years ago contracted a diseased hip bone, as a result of which his leg was amputated. His employer was gracious enough to allow him to remain in occupation of his tied cottage. The farm has since been sold and, as I say, the unfortunate occupant is now being served with a writ by the new occupier of the farm who has said that he wants the cottage for someone else. I understand that a writ is also being served today on a widow of 82 years of age, who has lived in the house for the last 29 years. If the law takes its expected course, she is to be turned out. I could cite hosts of these cases, and I am sure that my hon. Friends in the National Union of Agricultural Workers could cite many others. In those circumstances, this Bill is welcome as going some way towards meeting the plight of those living in tied cottages. I congratulate the Government on the speedy manner in which they have moved in in an endeavour to deal with this problem, which has festered for so many years, but further action is required, and required rapidly. I want to see the 1957 Rent Act abolished, as has been promised today, lock, stock and barrel. I want to see the tied-cottage system abolished, lock, stock and barrel. But I realise that, in the long run, we must have a national housing policy if these problems are to be dealt with effectively. The truth is that many people are forced by unemployment to seek jobs in my constituency, and this must impose a heavy burden on the houses available there. I therefore believe that it is very necessary for the Government to embark as soon as possible on a programme of building not only more houses but more new towns in which employment will be available alongside the houses, and so enable people to find the jobs they require in areas where they would prefer to stay. I believe that it would help a great deal if rented property were eventually municipalised. Private enterprise has shown quite clearly that it is unable to cope with providing accommodation at reasonable rents. I was therefore delighted to hear my right hon. Friend speak of compulsory purchase by local authorities when eviction is threatened. I am delighted to support this Bill as an interim measure, and as a holding  measure. It will go some way towards alleviating the very serious circumstances in which many people at present find themselves, but I hope that further steps will be taken swiftly. I thank the House for giving such a fair hearing to me when making my initial speech.
