gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should like, first, to crave the indulgence of the House on this, the occasion of my  maiden speech. I have been warned that I must not be controversial. Therefore, I cannot comment on the fact that when I was being shown round and welcomed in the House—and I am very grateful for the welcome which hon. Members from both sides gave me—I found, on a shelf in the Library, books on slavery and Socialism side by side. I should like to follow in the footsteps of my predecessor, Colonel McKibbin, who was well known both in his constituency and in the House of Commons for his interest in the position of public service pensioners. Therefore, in speaking on the Second Reading of the Finance Bill I should like to press the Government to make, either by way of Amendment to the Finance Bill or, if this is not the appropriate occasion, by new legislation, permanent increases in public service pensions. I should widen that, perhaps, to include such deserving classes of people as school teachers, hospital staffs and others who have dedicated their lives to public service. They find it very difficult to live on their small pensions, particularly those who retired some years ago. The review of their pensions is very long overdue. I am glad to report to the House that the Finance Bill was very well received in Ulster. It marks, we believe, the beginning of a period of recovery and expansion from the recent trade recession and the currency crisis which accompanied it. We have had now a year of stable prices, and this is the foundation stone of expansion. The Finance Bill provides the necessary incentive. It is already leading to increased consumption, which, in turn, will lead to increased production and a better standard of living for everyone. I should like at this juncture to make special mention of the position of shipping companies. I was disappointed that the Bill did not contain further tax concessions to the shipping industry. There is a very real need for such investment concessions. Our shipping companies have to face fierce competition from fleets which fly flags of convenience. The House has often heard speeches on this subject, and I do not intend to go into the economics of it today. Such fleets have shown a very rapid increase over the last six years and shipping companies in the United Kingdom must build new, faster ships of larger capacity which can   compete economically with overseas shipping companies. In that context, I am thinking especially of the Belfast shipbuilding yards. We have in Belfast the largest and best equipped yard for producing ships in the United Kingdom. We produce particularly passenger liners, large oil tankers and cargo ships of all types and capacity. Yet serious unemployment is threatened there. Unless there are more orders for new ships in Belfast there will be more unemployment in our shipyards. This is an excellent opportunity for the type of investment relief which I have just mentioned. There is a pool of skilled craftsmen in Northern Ireland. And in spite of the good news of the past few months, I regret to say that there is still very heavy unemployment in Ulster. Messrs. Short and Harland, to whom the order for the Britannic has recently been given, and who are developing the important new vertical take-off aircraft, have recently announced that they will have more redundancy. How better could these highly skilled men be employed than in developing new industries and expanding and modernising the traditional industries of Ulster, such as the shipbuilding, linen and rope industries, to mention only a few? Capital expenditure is a long-term project. I should like to refer to the Budget speech of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor, when he said: The special stimulus to investment which these allowances will provide"" — referring to the investment allowances set out in Clause 17 of the Bill— is desirable in present economic circumstances. In different conditions such a special stimulus may be no longer justified, and then it would be equally appropriate to reverse the action I am taking now."" —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 7th April, 1959; Vol. 603, c. 60.] This statement of policy was repeated later when, on 13th April, my hon. and learned Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury said: My right hon. Friend, therefore, preferred the method of investment allowances. He believes that they may prove a useful short-term regulator."" —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 13th April, 1959; Vol. 603, c. 666.] In this context, I should like to press my right hon. Friend to reconsider his policy in this matter. I should like him  to indicate to the House that the new level of investment allowances will be maintained. Nothing could be more harm than using this branch of taxation policy as a tool for economic control, to be turned on and off at a moment's notice in an attempt to meet some periodic trade fluctuation. I would direct my right hon. Friend's attention to opinions expressed, amongst others, by the editor of the Financial Times. In an article on 15th April the editor expressed the opinion that there is a three-year delay before the effect of such a change can affect any taxpayer's tax liability. Therefore, the most that such tax changes as are contained in Clause 17 of the Bill can do is to affect investment in stockbuilding, or minor investment policy. No major investment scheme, even if it is a marginal scheme, can be affected by such an uncertain and perhaps short-term change. Such reliefs as are contained in Clause 17 must be reasonably permament. I agree with the hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Rhodes) in this matter, for it is very important to realise that investment expenditure is the most desirable form of expenditure there is and should be given every encouragement by the Government. Subject to these remarks, I join with my hon. Friends in agreeing that the Bill should be read a Second time.
