gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This being my maiden speech I must follow custom and practice, and I can assure the House that in my case it is with special pleasure that I make reference to my predecessor Miss—now, I should say Baroness—Bacon. When I learned of Alice Bacon's intention not to seek re-election at the General Election I heard of it with rather mixed feelings. As one who has been a member of her constituency for so many years, and who appreciates, as many people do, the tremendous work she has done on behalf of the City of Leeds, obviously I regretted her decision; yet at the same time, in view of the fact that it gave me the opportunity to become a Member of this House, obviously I regarded it with a certain amount of pleasure. I am sure I am speaking not only for the people of Leeds, South-East but also Members of this House when I say that I, too, am delighted that Miss Bacon has been appointed to the other place and so will be able to continue to make her very useful contribution to the work of the community. Those who know her are fully aware of the fact that she is still extremely capable of making that sort of contribution. It is rather appropriate that this Bill should be the subject of my maiden speech. I must admit that it had not  been my original intention to make my maiden speech today, but, having listened to the debate, and because of the fact that the City of Leeds has been mentioned on more than one occasion, and because of the fact that Leeds is one of the major urban areas in this land and one of the areas to be most affected by this Bill, I thought it appropriate that I should have something to say about it. This is, and for some time has been, a very topical subject not only in Leeds but in most parts of the country, particularly the major urban areas. Like some hon. Members opposite, I am a member of a local authority. I am a member of Leeds City Council. Those of us who have served for any length of time in local government take considerable exception to the suggestion that within the boundaries of our local authorities there are not people capable of making contributions to the communities in which they live. In Leeds, for instance, we have 130 aldermen and councillors on the City Council and a population of residents numbering 500,000. I would argue, I think with some justification, that out of 500,000 people we ought to be able to find at least 130 residents in the city capable of making their contribution to the life of the community. I, and people who sit on the opposite side of the council chamber from me, will take considerable exception to the suggestion that this is not so. We have members on the council who come from outside the city, and the leader is not himself a resident of the city. While it may be reasonable to claim that those who have served on the council for many years and have not lived in the city would be handicapped and disfranchised if this Bill were carried, we have to bear in mind that there is another factor, and that is that, since July this year, when it became apparent to local authorities that this Bill was to be put through Parliament, there has been a tendency for people to move deliberately within city areas. We are not merely trying to protect people who have been in this situation for years; we are giving encouragement to people to create a situation that many of us feel is totally wrong. It should be clearly understood that if the Bill were not enacted and people were not allowed to sit on local authorities unless   they lived within the area of those local authorities we should not be preventing people giving service to the community. That cannot be emphasised too much. Some hon. Members opposite seem to be under the impression that we are deliberately trying to prevent certain people from making their contribution to the work of the community in which they live. That is not so. There is no reason why a person should not serve the community in which he lives. Why should not he be prepared to do so? If it is right that there is a shortage of talented people in our urban areas it is also right that there is a shortage of talented people in the areas in which they live, and they can make an equally useful contribution in those areas rather than in the cities where they are engaged in business. The Minister of State highlighted our differences when he emphasised that many people who would be affected by the Bill had a business interest; they paid rates and therefore had a major stake in the area. That is where the two sides of the House differ. Rates are only one factor within the work of any local authority. It is not the major stake, in my opinion, and in this respect I believe that I speak for my colleagues. The important thing is the service that we render the community that we govern as councillors. If the emphasis on individuals is on the amount of rates they have to contribute and not on the service it is possible that the service itself will be impaired. Many of us feel that if a person does not live in an area but merely has a business there and pays rates his main concern will be to keep the rate level as low as possible, without any real concern about the effect such a policy may have on the services that his council is trying to provide. An hon. Member opposite referred to the people of South Leeds as ""sheep-like"". I can assure him and anyone else who is interested that that is far from the truth; the people of South Leeds, and, indeed, of Leeds generally, are politically sophisticated, and they see the dangers inherent in passing a Bill of this kind. They appreciate that the services that they and their families enjoy are likely to be impaired. For those reasons I, together with my hon. Friends, will oppose the Bill as  something totally unnecessary in terms of social justice and very dangerous, from the practical point of view, to the people that we represent. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and hon. Members for listening so quietly and tolerantly to my maiden speech.
