gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
1 rise in response to a statement made yesterday by the hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Pickthorn) when he said: …do not let us pretend that what has happened in Yugoslavia is something Democratic, Free, Lawful, the sort of thing we went to war for. If we permit ourselves to fall into that hypocrisy, the more contemptible because it deceives no one except ourselves, if we permit ourselves to fall into that hypocrisy we shall never be able to claim Allies on the Continent of Europe within any measurable time. And I think the same thing could be said about other countries, as about Yugoslavia.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 22nd November, 1945; Vol.416, c. 652–3.] If the hon. Member is prepared to put forward Yugoslavia as a State by which we can judge other countries, I am prepared to accept that position entirely. I want to view the situation of Yugoslavia from a different angle, possibly, to that of other hon. Members. I lay claim to have been a co-operator, one who has fought inside the Co-operative movement and for the Co-operative movement, and who recognises that freedom flourishes inside the Co-operative movement and that the Co-operative movement itself can only flourish within a free and democratic State. I wish to deal with the situation of the Co-operative movement as I found it in Yugoslavia, and to give some facts in relation to this situation. The Co-operative movement cannot develop within a totalitarian State. We know full well the situation in which the Co-operative movement found itself in Italy, Germany and Spain. Where Fascism raises its head, where freedom is denied to the people of the country, it is found that just as with other workers' democratic movements, the Co-operative movement also is submerged. What is the position of the Co-operative movement in Yugoslavia? Let me quote a statement by Mr. Nickolas Rezak, Director of Field Operations and   Distribution, in the Yugoslav Mission of U.N.R.R.A. Here is what he states: Anyone travelling through Yugoslavia immediately becomes aware of the fact that life is being developed along co-operative lines. The distribution of supplies is done on a co-operative basis through co-operative stores; production is also done on this scale. Practically all the houses in the devastated areas are being built through the use of co-operatives. Practically 100 percent. of the agricultural work is co-operative. That is a statement in relation to the Co-operative movement inside Yugoslavia. We are told by the hon. Member for Cambridge University that freedom and democracy do not exist inside Yugoslavia. Again, let us look at an independent report in relation to the Co-operative movement in Yugoslavia. What do we find in this, a report from an American source? It says that the well-known Rochdale principles of co-operatives are very closely adhered to throughout the country—democratic control, one vote for each member. Any person may be a member regardless of his religion. So one could proceed to quote throughout this report. The further important statement is made: Co-operatives are being stressed by the people and the Government as one of the most economic devices to be used for the rehabilitation of the economy of Yugoslavia. It ensures control by the people, lowered prices and knowledge of what is going on in their economic life. Is it possible to visualise any State in which we are told freedom is non-existent where the Co-operative movement flourishes along the lines indicated in those reports? I could continue at great length in relation to the Co-operative movement in Yugoslavia. The Foreign Secretary made a good point this morning when he spoke about the Greek situation, and said that it was the intention to use the co-operative distribution method inside Greece. It is known full well that in a State where there is a co-operative working on those lines, supported by the people, freedom must exist therein, and it gives the direct lie to the hon. Member for Cambridge University when he infers that freedom is non-existent in Yugoslavia. Let us look at the matter from the political angle. In the recent elections held in Yugoslavia the number of the electorate was raised from  3,829,000 to 8,020,000. Would one suggest, with figures of that description, that democracy was not being promoted? Would one suggest that there we had totalitarianism? At these elections for the first time in the history of Yugoslavia, the women exercised the right to vote. I remember that on one occasion while we were there, one woman over 100 years old, a peasant, said she had lived her life to see the day when she could exercise the right to vote. Now she felt that she was not satisfied. She wanted to live longer in order to see the accomplishment of the reconstruction that had begun in Yugoslavia. I remember also going into one of the devastated villages where the partisans had fought battle after battle, where the village had been destroyed, where the houses had been devastated. Where reconstruction had begun some of the houses had been rebuilt. Down in the valley one could see the red tiles of one of those houses. I remember asking one of the old peasants in this village why he was supporting the National Front and Marshal Tito. He pointed to the roof of the house and said, ""Because of those red tiles."" There, I think one had it epitomised that the people were giving their support freely and honourably in the recent elections. I talked with priests in the villages to find out whether there was any suppression from a religious point of view. I remember that on the Sunday when the elections took place, I went into a small village, unaccompanied by any of the other members of our part, and discussed with a priest, in English, the religious situation. I asked him what was the position in his village, and he said, ""My village stands behind Marshal Tito."" I asked him what was his position, and what he felt about the elections. He said, ""I feel that the elections are free. It is the first time in my country that I have seen an election in which there have not been soldiers standing by armed and with their rifles ready. It is the first time I have been able to vote secretly, with no one watching how I voted."" I asked him about the position with regard to religion. He said, ""We have no persecution, my church is full every Sunday, and my people come to worship. We have full freedom."" I could quote one example after another of priests who told me the same things when I spoke to them about religious matters. Before going to Yugoslavia, I was told of the oppression that was supposed to be taking place. I tried to find it. I could not find it anywhere, except in the minds of some of the Members of the Tory Party in this country. The oppression and terrorism that are supposed to exist in the Balkan countries and in Yugoslavia do not exist. We were forced to land without notice at a certain place owing to bad flying conditions. They did not expect us. We immediately got into touch with British people in that town. Let me make it clear that they were holding official positions. We asked them for their opinions with regard to the situation. They told us there were terror and oppression, and that worst of all was the secret police, the Ozno. They told us that people were interned in the prisons, and we were left to imagine the kind of things that happened in those prisons. Within an hour of being given that information, we went into the Ozno prison in that place. I suppose that some people will try to suggest that before we went there conditions were got ready for us, but believe me, we were not so simple as some people think. Whom did we find in charge of that Ozno prison? It was the man who had previously been a prisoner inside it himself, a man who had been imprisoned by the Nazis and had suffered from Nazi treatment. He conducted us round the prison, and allowed us to see any part we desired. We spoke to the prisoners in their cells. We spoke to the man who had been chief of police under the Nazi authorities, and we asked him whether conditions were good in the prison. He said they were good. We asked him whether they were better than they had been when he was in charge of the prison and he stated definitely that the conditions were better. He said that the only thing to which he objected was the discipline, but quite honestly, if the time comes for me to be put in prison, I would much prefer the Ozno prison there than some of the prisons in this country. We saw three and four people in large cells, with running water in the cells; they were smoking, there were books to read, and food in the cells. We tasted the food that was brought down to the prisoners. We failed to see in any form the terrorism and oppression that were supposed to exist. Hon. Members opposite may smile, but they must realise that I am speaking  of the things that I saw, and not of what has been told me by people who are opposed to freedom and democracy on the Continent. We had the fullest freedom to enter any part of Yugoslavia, and no let or hindrance was placed in our way. On the day the elections took place, we saw people experiencing the right to vote for the first time. There was happiness in the people's eyes, there were dancing and singing in the villages, and the gypsy bands were playing, on that day of supposed oppression. They were indeed rejoicing in the freedom that had been given them. We looked everywhere for oppression. We found members of the opposition and had discussions with them. We asked them for facts, which were never forthcoming, and we found that, instead of the position being that in Yugoslavia there was a State that was in a straitjacket, there were people who were proud of what they had fought for, proud of the fact that they were commencing the reconstruction of their country on new lines, proud of their democracy. The Foreign Secretary spoke of the cohesion of parties in Greece; there is that cohesion of parties inside Yugoslavia. We spoke to members of the Peasant Party, who had belonged to that party for 20 or 30 years; we spoke to members of the Democratic Party, the Communist Party, and practically of all parties, and we asked them whether they were in the National Front of their own free will. The reply that we received was that they were in the National Front because they placed the reconstruction of their country first. We read the questions that were put to candidates who were putting up in the elections. The first question was: ""What did you do during the war? Did you collaborate with the enemy or fight against the Fascists?"" The second question was: ""What is your position with regard to reconstruction in our country?"" In spite of the devastation, the tortures and the murders that had been committed in their country, the people were laying emphasis not upon what they had done in the war, but upon the reconstruction that faced them. I have never met with a more hospitable people. I have never met people with so much right to stand up with pride and dignity and say that they   fought literally with bare hands against the might of the Fascist hordes. It would have been a crime if we had intervened in those elections and tried to impose upon the country King Peter, a king whom they do not want. The people of Yugoslavia have freely spoken in the elections. They have spoken without any fear in their hearts. They have given their decision for a democracy in which they believe. That decision will result in reconstruction in Yugoslavia such as has never been seen before. Instead of the Balkans being the cockpit of Europe, as in the past, we shall find that in the Balkans there will arise a new people with a new vision, such as has happened in this country, and we should continue to give them every support. I want to pay a tribute to the splendid work U.N.R.R.A. has done in that country, and to say that that work should continue. They have saved thousands of people there from starvation. They have placed a tremendous part, but more yet remains to be done. Clothing, food and machinery are required in Yugoslavia. Friends of mine have been in various parts of Yugoslavia. We split up our party in order to get as wide a view as possible of the life of the country, but wherever we went, whatever we saw, all of us came back with the same feeling that the people of Yugoslavia are proud of their independence. When some people suggest that Yugoslavia is merely a vassal of the U.S.S.R., they are entirely wrong. People who will fight for their freedom as the Yugoslavs have fought for theirs would not accept any sort of domination by another State. They are standing on their own legs, they are free, and they will fight like blazes to prevent that freedom from being taken from them. Democracy rules in Yugoslavia. The co-operative movement is strong, and is getting stronger every day, in Yugoslavia. I would say to the Foreign Secretary, By all means give your support to the people of Yugoslavia who have so freely declared their will.
