gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
May I take this occasion to congratulate you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, on your appointment. It is with great pride that I rise to join this debate on economic affairs. I am proud to have been elected for Southampton, Test, but doubly honoured because it is the city of my birth. I believe it is the tradition during a maiden speech to refer to one's predecessor in a laudable manner. This presents no difficulties to me as I have found Mr. Richard Mitchell a good constituency Member, quiet, thoughtful, hard working and no doubt he will be sorely missed by his colleagues opposite. While during the election campaign eggs seemed to by flying as thick as confetti in some areas, Southampton, Test was remarkably calm. Only one egg was thrown at me and, luckily, that landed on two young Socialists nearby who were heckling me. I emphasise that my Labour and Liberal opponents conducted their very similar campaigns in an exemplary manner. The City of Southampton is a beautiful city, with over 300 acres of park and common land in its central areas, a progressive city waiting to burst into the 1970s with tremendous vigour. One decision which I am sure Mr. Speaker, as the Member for my sister constituency, will be delighted to hear—and I have only just been informed of it—is that Southampton City Council is proceeding with a bridge, to be called the Itchen Bridge, linking the southern ends of our two constituencies. It has long been needed. In due course, the council will be approaching the Minister of Transport for the necessary grant and loan sanction. One problem for this city of the future which will not he solved overnight is the outline transportation plan which we shall definitely need by the mid-1970s. We need roads to carry not only the normal volume of city traffic but over 1,000 container lorries per day which pour into our docks. Increasing development of the docks, with £14½ million being spent on a modernisation and con-  tainerisation scheme, will mean increasing loads on our roads. A great bone of contention is planning blight—inadequate finance and high interest rates which fall very heavily on the city—and, worst of all, fringe blight. The situation is just as devastating for someone trying to sell a property in the shadow of a motorway as it is for the owner of a property right in the path of a motorway. Perhaps the Minister could be more generous with interest rates on the finances intended for purchasing property and land ahead of requirements so that the councils, too, can be generous in their decisions on whether to purchase in fringe blight areas. One cause for alarm in the City of Southampton is due to the city being an integral part of the study report for the South Hampshire plan. While awaiting the final outcome of the structure plan, which is not due for some years yet, there is an element of stagnation in the city centre. To quote but one example, there has not been an office development permit issued for any development in the city since office development permits were implemented in 1967. In addition, there is an extremely severe shortage of industrial development certificates. The South Hampshire plan, as most hon. Members will know, is a series of study reports interlocking with each other to produce a complex written report, very much like a huge jigsaw: there will be no complete planning picture until the last piece has been fitted. Then the diagramatic plan will be drawn. This means that very little can be done in the way of planning until the final result is available. This has caused a great deal of alarm in the building industry in South Hampshire. There will not be enough land for even the normal growth in the next five years. One main stumbling block to the plan is that, for many years, inadequate local finance has been available for sewerage and services. It became apparent during the period that I served on the committee of the South Hampshire plan that all members and officers of the committee realise that the local authorities will not have sufficient finance to participate fully in the plan. Therefore, a top priority for the Government will be to provide the necessary additional finance. The right hon. Member for Huyton (Mr. Harold Wilson), said that he would attack the housing programme as if it were a military campaign. I fully approved of that at the time. Unfortunately, for some obscure reason, the guns were turned on his own ranks. I now wish to sound a note of alarm by quoting the latest figures released by the National Federation of Building Trade Employers. The building industry, which employs 7 per cent. of the working population, accounts for 20 per cent. of the unemployment. The shortage of building land in the private sector, the Land Commission, betterment levy, and selective employment tax, coupled with the difficulty of obtaining funds other than at an incredibly high interest rate, have dealt the building industry a fearsome blow, especially in the South. I have before me a cutting from the Southern Evening Echo dated 1st July announcing that one of our major building construction firms, H. Stevens and Company, a well-known and well-respected firm in Southampton, was to fall under the hammer of the Official Receiver's auctioneers this afternoon. This is but one of many firms in the Southampton area, including several which have been building council contracts. I am pleased that the Minister of Housing and Local Government is already moving in the right direction. I am confident that he sees the building industry as a sector requiring instant resuscitation and that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will look favourably on the building industry to the extent of allowing at least the same priority in borrowing at the banks as, say, the export industry and will ensure a rapid release from selective employment tax. Who in his right mind would have called the building industry a service trade? I am sure that no one would deny that most of our welfare and social problems stem from poor housing. For the young to be reared in substandard accommodation must, in a major way, be responsible for many forms of delinquency and the general increase in lawlessness. I plead with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to ensure that bank rates and mortgage rates are tied sufficiently together so that in the time element they move closer together. As I believe that, in a maiden speech, one's interests should be stated, may I state my three loves. The first two will be housing and planning, due to my years as chairman of the Southampton housing Committee and being my profession. The third will be aviation due to my 11 years' service with the British Overseas Airways Corporation as an aircrew member during which time I flew out of Southampton on the Solent flying boats and also with the United Nations Organisation, with which I served a spell in Srinagar, Kashmir. My fear is that the aircraft industry will suffer a similar fate to that of the building industry. It has been staggering over the last few years. What glorious ideas have been condemned!—the TSR2 at Boscombe Down, the HS681, the P1154 and the Beagle. In Southampton we have had the taking-over of hovercraft by the Official Receiver. We have also had the attempted crushing of independent airlines. The TSR2 would have had a world market, the same as the Canberra. The P1154 would have had a world market, the same as the Hunter, which is still being exported. We must also remember how successful the Lightning was. Those are the things in which I am interested and in respect of which I hope I can be an asset to the House. I thank you, Sir, and the House for giving me the courtesy of your silence.
