gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank the House for this oppportunity to make my maiden speech as the Member for Salford, West. I wish, first, to pay a tribute to my predecessor, who has now gone to another place, who served this House for 19 years with great distinction; he served on its Committees and chaired many of its meetings. I believe that he found a place in the heart of this House of Commons, as he did in the hearts of his constituents in Salford, West. Salford is a city in the industrial North-West, the centre of an industrial conurbation of about 2¼million people. My constituency is very heavily populated, though exceedingly small in size, and it is bound up with industry in the whole of that region of Britain. Not only in and around Salford itself, but in the North-West as a whole we have one of the largest industrial areas of Britain, and in this area, often neglected in the past, like other important parts of Britain, we look to the Government, with their regional planning, to solve many of the problems which call for attention in housing, in transport, and in other vital aspects of life and policy in the North-West. The area which I represent was at the heart of our first Industrial Revolution. It has been said that Britain depended in the past on cotton and on coal, and it now depends on the manufacturing industries and their exports for its very survival. I represent many thousands of skilled and unskilled workers in British industry today, and the area I come from is the home of some of our basic industries, many of them with a world-wide reputation. Among them, of course, is the steel industry and all that it stands for. I feel that I have been relieved of worry about whether one should or should not make a non-controversial speech on this occasion by the two previous maiden speeches, both excellently delivered and very much to the point. I intend to direct myself to that point now. The planning of my area and its industries gives me great concern. Just on the border of my constituency is the Trafford Park industrial conurbation, one of the largest concentrations of heavy industry not only in Britain but in Western Europe. This huge industrial area depends on steel for its survival, and, of course, steel manufacturing companies are in its very midst. It depends upon steel if it is to produce and manufacture the goods so urgently needed by this country. My connection with industry is not purely as a representative of many thousands of industrial workers. I have just come from industry, from the shop floor, as a shop steward of 15 years' experience in engineering, and I am a representative of one of the major trade unions of Britain. Therefore, I have had some experience of, at least, the workers' side of industry, of negotiation and of many of the problems which concern us. This brings me to the philosophy of public ownership as such. I welcome the fact that, in effect, a division is created at this point because it helps to clarify the issues in the debates which lake place. A very distinguished former Member of this House, Aneurin Bevan, said that politics was about power. Power is about control, and one cannot control industries unless one has them firmly under one's power and direction. Therefore, when we talk in the Labour Party about the commanding heights of industry, we are talking about the commanding  heights of steel and the major basic industries upon which the country depends. The case has already been well made. The shortcomings of the industry speak for themselves. If I may say so, the kernel of the debate became clear when the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Sir S. Summers) intervened during the speech from his own Front Bench and put the fundamental issue. It is about prices, and prices raise the question of profits. While the profit motive remains the dominant factor in the steel industry, it will never be an efficient industry. It will never produce the steel upon which the manufacturing industries depend. It is this profit motive which makes the two sides of industry, and the profit motive and all that stems from it will remain until there is public ownership. In my view, this question should not be hidden under a sheet. I invite the right hon. Member for Enfield, West (Mr. Iain Macleod) to read my election address, where he will find that I quite definitely mentioned the public ownership of steel and other industries as well. The subject of our debate today, in this cockpit of democracy, is vital for Britain and its future. Upon the outcome will depend whether we can make our country the toolroom of the world, whether we can produce the manufactured goods needed not only by ourselves but by the developing countries overseas. If we are to bridge this gap, if we are to help these other countries, if we are to make the products which we and the world need, not just for our selfish wants at home but for the world as a whole, if we are to help break down the barriers of hunger which exist today, we must have the basic control of our economy. The point is underlined when we recall what happened during the past 13 years, when power moved from this Chamber to the boardrooms at the centre of industry. I want to see it come back from the boardrooms to this Chamber. I want to be able to have the Minister here so that we can raise questions and thrash them out with him if necessary. I want industry to be accountable to the nation as a whole, not playing about with foolhardy schemes of publicity and denigration, trying to defend itself and its profits, as it has done in the recent past. Let us have it where it can be accountable to the nation. On this basis, I am proud to stand here and support the public ownership of the steel industry. I am proud that it will put onerous duties upon this House, and I am quite certain that not only the House of Commons but the nation will, in the years to come, recognise that, with a planned economy, Britain will be able to produce the goods needed both at home and overseas. In the future, after this great industry has been nationalised, the British people will say to the Labour Party, ""Thank you, get on with the job"".
