gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As a new Member I appreciate that I am not well versed in the intricacies of House of Commons procedure. Nor do I have the oratory of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Employment. Having listened to my right hon. Friend I am gratified that he is on our side. It seems that the issues with which we are faced concern the people of Preston no less than any other part of Great Britain. So far the issues have been fairly put by both sides of the House. The right hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Walker), in replying to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry, referred to nationalisation. He indicated clearly that investment in steel tended to fall in the face of threats of nationalisation. The right hon. Member for Carshalton (Mr. Carr) adopted a similar theme. He indicated clearly that to the Opposition nationalisation remains a dirty word and that it will be treated in the same way as the Opposition have always treated it over the years. As a new Member I find it is worth while considering precisely why the Opposition adopt that approach to nationalisation. Because of the considerable publicity given to the figures during the recent election we are all aware of the tremendous profits made this year by certain organisations. We have been informed that ICI made about £311 million, five food firms £284 million, three banks £504 million, four oil companies made £1,369 million, and certain property companies about £2,000 million. These add up to a grand total of about £4,000 million. Clearly the gentlemen who are involved in those enterprises are not interested in nationalisation. They are interested in protecting the privileges that accrue from those sort of profits. When people in the categories to which I have referred speak of nationalisation they at the same time tend to refer to a concept which they call the ""national interest"". It is a concept that is extremely difficult to define in political terms. It comes over from time to time that what the ""national interest"" means to some people is very different from what it means to others. To some the ""national interest"" clearly is the right to make profits. The multinational companies continue to show their strength in terms of Britain's economic situation. If we examine the organisation of the multinationals, those centralised, bureaucratic, hierarchical organisations which span nations, we realise that they control assets greater than some which national countries control. Those multinational companies play an enormous part in the  life of Britain, but their idea of the national interest is quite unreal. In the Second World War it was much easier to identify the national interest for the people as a whole were clearly anxious to defeat Fascism and to protect Britain from German, Italian and Japanese invasion, and it tended to unite them. However, in the present situation we appear to be living in a continually divided nation—I thought that the the remarks of the right hon. Member for Chipping Barnet (Mr. Maudling) were extremely naive in this respect—and indeed the nation is divided not merely between north and south of the Wash but on an age-old basis of class. In Britain a very small section of the population controls a vast amount of economic and political power. A much larger number of people have only one source of acquiring that which is necessary for life—namely, the selling of their labour. I was asked at an election meeting by one worker in the Preston dockyard for a categoric assurance that Preston Docks would be included in any Government plans for nationalisation of the ports. I make that point because it has been suggested by some Conservatives that people involved in some of our industries are perturbed about this whole problem. People who take that view must have taken little opportunity fully to understand what the Labour Party has consistently argued on the subject of nationalisation throughout the years. The position of the Labour Party is governed by an acceptance of the fact that without a measure of control over industrial undertakings within our society and over our financial institutions the whole concept of planning in our economy becomes absurd. Decisions in multinational companies are taken in the boardrooms of these huge combines and it is these decisions that affect the economies of a number of countries, including our own. Those decisions are not determined on the basis of what is in the interests of the majority of the people in those countries. They are clearly taken on the basis of what is likely to maximise the profits which the combines can obtain. In the face of that sort of approach the recent publication of a major book by Professor Galbraith, an American economist, is significant. He has raised in terms of the American economy the   question of effective control, planning and mobilisation of resources. The Labour Government are now involved with precisely that question, namely, how are we to be able to plan our economy to meet people's needs in terms of housing, health, pensions, job security, education, social security and so on? In other words, how are we to allocate resources on a firm and fair basis within our society without a considerable extension of public ownership in our society. I am sure that hon. Members on both sides of the House are well aware that, in the final analysis, it is power that determines decision making within a society. I think it was Bertrand Russell who referred to power as a continuum—a process involving movement from a position of influence to a position of coercion. I am sure that the Labour Government will seek to exercise a degree of influence in this respect. I hope that they will not shrink from the exercise of coercion should this be necessary so that we may effectively and realistically plan our economy. Although in present-day Britain there is on the one hand great wealth we must face the fact that, on the other hand, there are between 8 million and 9 million in Britain who are living below the poverty line. Statistics show that, in 1848, 47·5 per cent. of the gross national product went in wages. In 1968, 120 years later, when the GNP was several thousand times larger than it was in 1848, the proportion of GNP which went in wages was 48·2 per cent. Therefore, in a period of 120 years the increase in the figure going to wages was only 0·7 per cent. Against that background we must examine what is sometimes called the ""9 to 5"" society. In recent months, in various economic journals, certain learned gentlemen who are qualified economists have been arguing about the distribution of wealth in Britain and have attempted to show that in recent years the rich have got poorer and the poor have got richer. However, the facts which emerge in places like Liverpool, Manchester, Preston and a considerable area of Lancashire show that this is far from the case and that what gains have been made have been made on the basis of continual pressure on employers for im-  proved wages. It is against that background that we have had the Industrial Relations Act, which, I am pleased to hear, the Labour Government are to repeal forthwith. Every trade unionist knows, as the Government know, that if we are to create social justice in Britain we must press ahead with the policies outlined in the Gracious Speech. Clearly we must end phase 3. It must be scrapped, and the Pay Board with it. The trade unions will respond. They will respond on a voluntary basis, but only if the Government pursue a real policy of social justice by achieving a more equitable distribution of wealth. Let us be under no illusion: there is great wealth in Britain. That wealth has to be harnessed by this Government to meet the needs of the many—the elderly, the very young, the sick and infirm, the lower-income groups, and the wage earners who really create the wealth that we have. That must be the Government's first priority. That, in my view, is the way forward to the establishment of a Socialist society in Britain. It is to achieving that end that I see my rôle. It is to achieving that end that I shall devote my energies as a Member of this new Parliament. I intend to fight for the interests of the working people of Preston and in the struggle for radical social change, which are inseparable. I hope to be able to make some small contribution in that struggle, and it is on that basis that I hope to be judged eventually.
