gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very greatful for this opportunity of addressing hon. Members for the first time, and I do so with more confidence than I might normally have, after witnessing the courtesy and consideration which hon. Members are always prepared to accord to those making their maiden effort. I listened with a great deal of attention to the hon. Member for Edge Hill (Mr. Irvine) and with a great deal of what he said in the early part of his speech I found myself in a considerable measure of agreement. I do not know whether that is due to the fact that my early political life was spent in the hon.  Gentleman's constituency. Perhaps the mild air of Edge Hill and its surrounding districts has something to do with the fact that we find so much in common. I was interested to find one small measure on which I could disagree with him, and it is on this that I should like to base such few remarks as I have to address to the Committee. The hon. Member stressed the fact that it was supremely important to see that the conditions of the workers on the railways are improved to the greatest possible degree. I believe that is an extremely important thing, but I am one of those old-fashioned people who also believe that the job of a transport undertaking, whether road or rail, is to convey passengers and goods as efficiently and economically as possible from place to place. That is really its job. The provision of employment for a large number of people is incidental to the job it performs. One should get these things in their right order, and if one does that, one may find a more reasonable and practical solution to the difficulties that confront the British Transport Commission. This we will not do by pursuing the line that our principal and supreme objective is to see that the conditions of those employed in the industry are perfect, without having regard to the service that is provided. If we fail to provide the service, they will not have a job at all. I point that out at the outset, in order that it should not be thought that I bring to this discussion a parish-pump outlook. It is necessary for me to refer to my own constituency, not merely because I am proud of the constituency that I represent, but because it happens to be particularly applicable to the subject before the Committee. It so happens that we are one of those areas coming within the category of the London scheme, and that scheme, we are told, has been brought forward to be considered, as a basis of discussion before the Tribunal, as the method the British Transport Commission should seek to pursue, subject to due consideration of such objections as may he raised. It is important to Members from every other part of the country that this scheme should be considered in all its aspects, because I do not think that I misrepresent the Minister when I say that, in his view, the London scheme is a good one and may serve as a model for other   schemes in the country. Members, although far removed from Southend, may do well to remember that in time, the arguments that apply in this particular case may apply elsewhere and apply to them. So far as my own division is concerned, we find that we are in a position in which the British Transport Commission are anxious to remove certain anomalies. In point of fact, they are creating more anomalies than exist at the moment. it so happens that my division is served by two railway stations, one at Fenchurch Street and the other at Liverpool Street. One station is classified by the Transport Commission as being outside the area and the other, 200 yards away, is classified as being inside the London area. The fares on one are to be maintained at the present rate, and the fares upon the other are to be increased. Surely that is a perpetuation of anomalies and not removal of them. So far as this question is concerned, it is not the object of the Committee, as the hon. Member for Edge Hill rightly pointed out, to try to solve these problems so that they look nice on paper. It is true that he was talking about a different problem, but the same argument applies. It is not the purpose of this Committee to try to plan a transport scheme on the basis that one can work out the transport needs of the community according to the number of miles that separate one place from another, without having due regard to the individual characteristics of different districts. I hope that I may have the support of the Minister on this matter, because he knows, as I do, that a very large number of his constituents come to my constituency from time to time. Incidentally, if this scheme is approved they will have to pay a jolly sight more in order to get there. I hope that I shall have his support on this matter because it is imperative for us to recognise that since the old Fenchurch Street-Tilbury-Southend railway line, some 36 miles long, was built, it has become a profitable line on the basis of a cheap season ticket. On the basis of the cheap season ticket—one of the lowest tariff rates in the country—we are at present conveying 20,000 people to work in London every day. These people have been persuaded to come from London and adjourning parts and to live some distance away from their work because of the attraction of a cheap season ticket. Some of them have purchased houses in Southend, and I hope that the fact of having done so in that particular district will not be held against them. Those who listened to the Debate on housing last night know quite as well as I do that it is impossible for them, merely because the Transport Commission wish to increase the fares, to say that they will leave Southend and live in London, near to their work. They cannot do it. They have been attracted to the district because of the inducement of a cheap season ticket, and if the Transport Commission put up these prices, as they seek to do, these people will be disadvantaged, because immediately their incomes will be considerably reduced, as a result of the suggested alterations in the tariff. These questions ought to be ventilated, and I think it is important that hon. Members should realise that what is happening in Southend now, may happen in, say, the Liverpool divisions when Southport is affected in due course; it may apply throughout the country. It is, therefore, important for us to remember that due consideration should be given by those who understand local conditions before suggestions of this nature are put before tribunals; and we should have the opportunity of more careful consideration of individual differences which are to be found from place to place. I have stated that the journey on the Southend-Tilbury-Fenchurch Street line is being treated as wholly within the London area, and that the Southend-Liverpool Street line is treated as outside the London area. We all remember the troubles associated with the Polish corridor, and I am sure we do not want a perpetuation of that trouble in a ""Southend corridor."" Southend is being treated as part of an area comprising London and its dormitory zones, but only so far as the Fenchurch Street line is concerned. Southend as a seaside resort, with an industry depending upon passenger transport, is totally ignored. As a matter of fact, Southend is the only seaside resort included in the scheme. The cost of such a scheme to the community income of Southend will be   between £250,000 and £500,000 out of the £3½ million which the Transport Commission hope to receive. It is hoped that the income will be increased by some £3½ million, and they hope to get up to one-seventh of the increase out of the people who live in Southend and the surrounding constituencies. To my mind, that is not fair. That seems to me to place an undue hardship upon us; and it seems unjust that, at a time when we are already suffering from a high cost of living, these further demands should be made upon the purses of the people who have to travel from Southend to London, with a resultant reduction in their ability to spend their money in Southend and with the evil effects it will spread throughout the whole community. Last night in the House we heard something of the evils of price fixing; we were told that anybody who tries to maintain prices at a higher level than is necessary for the needs of the community is something of a traitor to the nation; that such a person ought to be wiped out of existence. But that is precisely what is happening here. I am sure the Minister knows as well as I do that what is happening in regard to the suggested increase in fares on the Southend line is not occasioned because the line is not running at a profit. It is. It has one of the lowest tariff rates in the country, and it has one of the highest profit rates in the country. That gives some force to the argument of my hon. Friend the Member for Monmouth (Mr. P. Thorneycroft) that one of the troubles with our railway industry is that the fares are too high, and that if they were brought down, more people might travel, so that we should make money instead of losing it. The Southend section of the line lends force to that argument, because there we find that although the tariff rate is very low the profit is very high. I hope that these factors will be borne in mind by the Minister. I, too, wish to quote from the book referred to by my hon. Friend the Member for Monmouth, although held up to some scorn by the Minister. On page eight of the ""Draft Outline of Principles Proposed to be Embodied in a Charges Scheme for Merchandise Traffic"" we find that, in dealing with goods, this is the object of the scheme:  It is the object of the scheme, therefore, to avoid as far as practicable the complexities and inconsistencies which arise when departures are made from a soundly designed plan. It is realised that exceptional cases may arise where the development of a substantial flow of traffic is contingent upon the level of transport costs, and in such instances, the need and practicability of a departure from the plan in the form of a special rate or charge will be taken into consideration. If they are prepared to take account of special considerations in their calculations with regard to freight, then I think they should take account of special considerations in their calculations with regard to human beings, who have to travel from one place to another. One of the major troubles running throughout the labour problems of the British Transport Commission—and this is a point upon which the hon. Member for Edge Hill and myself find ourselves in entire agreement—is that these things cannot be solved on paper, no matter how pretty the plans look, without having some regard to individual characteristics and conditions. I should now like to refer to transport facilities by road as they affect the Eastern Region, of which my own constituency is a part. It is true that ours is one of the ""guinea-pig"" areas. The North-Eastern Region was the first, and we are second on the list. I think it is fair to say that we are second on the list because the Transport Commission, through their purchase of Tilling's, have already secured a large measure of control over some forms of transport within the area. What is preventing them from having a nicely integrated scheme—how they love the sound of that phrase ""integrated scheme""—is the fact that a number of municipalities have excellent transport undertakings, which they have been running for years, in most cases at a profit and to the relief of the rates. Today it is suggested that they should be taken over and run by the British Transport Commission. To my mind, the same argument applies here. I am satisfied that the people who know best how to run the buses in Colchester are the people who live and work in and control the affairs of Colchester; I am sure they know how to do it much better than anybody else. If I may be permitted to refer to Southend again, I am certain that the Southend Corporation knows much better how to provide a municipal bus service,   and run it effectively, than does the British Transport Commission. I am strongly opposed to this suggestion to place these things on a large regional basis, and to remove from the people on the spot, who know how to run these things, responsibility and the opportunity to operate the services satisfactorily. Every single one of the municipalities in the Eastern Region has strongly opposed this suggestion, and I hope that they will have the support of the Minister, so far as it lies within his power to give it. Now I should like to say a word or two about the suggested increase in freight charges. I know it is easy for people to say: ""Well, 16⅔ per cent. is not very much."" There is a point which I do not think has been mentioned in the debate so far, and that is that the 16⅔ per cent. is only half of what the increase will be. I do not know whether it has been brought to the attention of the Minister, but the actual suggestion is that the increase shall be 33⅓ per cent., not 16⅔ per cent. Let me try to clarify that. It is proposed to increase the charge 16⅔ per cent., but surely it has not escaped attention that a great variety of the articles which are conveyed by a transport service are, in these days of penal taxation, subject to Purchase Tax, in one form or another, so that, with Purchase Tax levied upon the free delivery price of the goods, if the cost of the carriage is put up by 16⅔ the cost of the Purchase Tax is also put up by 16⅔. Therefore, they will be paying twice, once through the Transport Commission and once through Purchase Tax. The increase can be very considerable, and hon. Members who have just returned from their constituencies—and I congratulate all of them upon that return—should also remember that the cost of living is a very live and important issue on which the British Transport Commission can have a very serious effect. From the time when we get up in the morning, this question of the cost of living is with us. We are wakened by an alarm clock on which we had to pay tax and we then switch on the light and on the bulb we had to pay tax. When we wash ourselves we use soap on which there is tax, and there is also tax to be paid on the toothbrush and on the toothpaste which we use when we clean our teeth. The knives and forks  which we use at breakfast are subject to tax. And so it goes on all through the day. These increases in freight charges are going to be seriously reflected in the cost of living. I hope that hon. Members on both sides of the Committee will reflect upon the fact that the activities of the British Transport Commission are going to affect most seriously both them and their constituencies. It may be true that the suggested operation of the London charges scheme may not seem as real and as present a danger to hon. Members in some parts of the country as it seems to me, but if it is to be regarded as a model, sooner or later hon. Members in all parts of the Committee will have the matter brought to their attention by their constituents. It is better to look at it now while there is a chance of doing something about it, rather than to let the whole thing go on growing and growing until it becomes so cumbersome that we shall have lost control over the activities of the body which is under discussion this afternoon.
