gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise for the first time to address this House, and I trust that the House will accord me the indulgence customary on these occasions. I rise with some diffidence at this point in the Debate, because I am well aware that most of the points have already been covered. Perhaps the House will permit me to summarise briefly some of the principal points I wish to put to my right hon. Friends the Ministers of the Service Departments. On two things I think we are all agreed. In the first place we all want to see men and women of the Forces back home as soon as possible, to re-establish themselves in civil life, to renew their family circles, and to create the homes of the future. In the second place, we need the man-power back to restore the prosperity of our industry and agriculture. We need the men to dig the coal, to cultivate the land, and build the houses. On those things we are all agreed. I hope too that we can also agree that this time we will ensure that in the process of demobilisation we do equal justice to all, that as a result of any decisions we take and the schemes that are operated the men and women coming out of the Forces may feel that they have had a square deal. The fairest principle in any demobilisation from the Fighting Forces is the principle of ""first in, first out""—the men who have been the longest away from home, who have done the longest service, should have the first chance to get back into civil life. We in this country have adopted a scheme which is based on that principle. We have also taken into account the factor of age, in view of the additional responsibilities, particularly family responsibilities, which increased age brings in its train. It is absolutely essential that we stick to that age and service principle, and for this particular reason: that principle does not take into account the amount of a man's service that has been spent overseas. Everyone will recognise that there is a vast difference between service in   Burma and service in Britain, but the age and service principle does not take into account in any way the proportion of time during which a man has been far away from home, where there is no leave or likelihood of leave, and where contact with home is very difficult. Precisely because the men and women in the overseas Forces are not to enjoy any advantages, so we must ensure that they suffer no disadvantages in the operation of this scheme. It is for that reason that I wish to congratulate the Government in the first place for sticking as far as possible to the principle of the Bevin plan, in view of the fact that men and women in the overseas Forces who are furthest away from home are the men and women we should take most into consideration. In the second place, I would like to congratulate the Government on the speed up announced by the Minister of Labour on 2nd October, to which an hon. Member on this side has already referred. This was a considerable increase of 37 per cent. more men and women to be released from the Forces by the end of the year in comparison with the announcement which the Minister of Labour made last August. It is noteworthy, as many speakers have pointed out in this Debate, that that speed up is being achieved only by increasing the disparities that exist in the rates of release between grades and trades in the Services and between the three Services themselves, so that it is estimated that by the end of the first six months in 1946 there will be anything up to 15 or 16 groups of difference in the Services; and, what is more important, as between, let us say, the Royal Air Force and the Army with the average age group, there will be a disparity of some three or four groups. The point I wish to make about that is this. The crux, as I have pointed out, is that the age and service principle does not take into account overseas service, and the real grievance arises with a man, let us say, in the Royal Air Force who has done the majority of his service overseas, and who sees a man who has done the majority of his service at home, and who is four, five or more groups above him, getting out first. That is where there is a justifiable grievance. I appeal to my right hon. Friends the Ministers of the Service Departments immediately to do what has been suggested by a number of hon. Members in this Debate, that is, to undertake a serious  man-power investigation inside the Services to see whether, by remustering and transfers of personnel within the Services between trades and grades, and between the Services, it is not possible to reduce those disparities as the process of demobilisation goes on. Everybody who has served in the Armed Forces in this war knows that there are still considerable wastage and misuse of man-power. It is also obvious that the people at the top of the Services are not always cognisant of what is going on down at the bottom. I think—and the suggestion has been made by one hon. Member—that an independent inquiry by qualified civilians into the position that exists in the Services, not only at headquarters stations but throughout the units, not only here but in the B.A.O.R., would reveal considerable possibilities of transfers and postings of personnel within the Services and between the Services, to enable the Service Ministers to reduce these disparities in the rates of release. The second point on which I want to appeal to the Minister of Labour is in relation to the Class B releases. I have the honour to represent the Borough of Stafford which, like many other boroughs, has been waiting since the conclusion of hostilities for the return of its town planning officer and of several other technical men who are vitally needed for proceeding with the housing programme and the development and reconstruction work in my constituency. I think a great deal more should be done to speed up the machinery for the Class B release of these essential people required by local government staffs for building, as also for the coal mining industry, in order that our reconstruction work can be under-taken. I do not agree with the point put forward by some hon. Members, that there should be an increase in the numbers of Class B releases. I believe that every effort should be put into increasing the rate of releases in Class A. At the same time, I believe it should be possible to speed up the operation of the machinery in Class B releases so that important technical personnel could be made available for building firms and local government staffs. Thirdly I would like to support the point that has been put forward by one hon. Member in regard to compassionate releases. One of the grievances arising,   and about which there is some correspondence, in regard to the large number of compassionate cases that exist in the Services, is the different attitude taken by different Services in regard to compassionate cases. There is a great difference between the attitude that exists in the Army, by comparison with the attitude in the Navy, towards compassionate leave and compassionate release. His Majesty's Ministers should consult together, with a view to adopting a similar attitude. I agree with the Instruction issued by the Ministers that compassionate cases should be dealt with first of all through the usual channels in the units. It is the job of the welfare officers and of the commanding officers to deal with those cases. The trouble is that in a large number of cases the commanding officers and welfare officers do not know what attitude they should take towards compassionate cases. Therefore there is considerable delay, and a sense of grievance among the men and their families, at the way in which many of the cases are held up. Those are the points in which I believe that the operation of the demobilisation scheme can now be greatly improved. Finally, I have listened to many speeches in this House depicting the dangers to individual liberty in this country arising from the Government's power of controls. I believe that, for the vast mass of the people of this country, real freedom, from want and fear, and from drudgery and boredom, consists not so much in the absence of controls as in the presence of opportunities created by the efficiently planned use of man-power and natural resources, and I appeal to the Government to ensure, in this process of demobilisation, that the men and women in the Services, and their families at home, have every opportunity to understand fully the nature of the plan; in the second place, to appreciate the obstacles and difficulties in the path, and, in the third place, themselves to participate in trying to improve its execution.
