gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak on this important subject. I speak as one of the few Members of the House who are active members of a health authority. I have the honour to represent the new constituency of Oxford, East which was created mainly from the wards of the old Oxford city seat, but to which have been added areas formerly represented by my right hon. Friend the Minister of State, Home Office and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence. Both my distinguished right hon. Friends have earned the affection and respect of their former constituents over the years. I pay tribute to them for their support for, and hard work on behalf of, those wards. It is a particular pleasure to pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Oxford, West and Abingdon (Mr. Patten), the Under-Secretary of State for Health and Social Security. As hon. Member for Oxford since 1979, he gained the respect of his colleagues both inside and outside the House. He was one of the first new Members to become a member of the previous Conservative Government. I am delighted to see him on the Front Bench in his new role at the Elephant and Castle rather than at Stormont Castle. I convey to him the warmest regards of his former constituents who hold him in the highest esteem. I thank him for the countless personal kindnesses extended to me both before and after the general election. He has been a true friend and guide throughout my first weeks in the House, and I am sincerely indebted to him. Specifically in the context of today's debate, my constituency houses some of the most impressive NHS facilties within the Oxford region, if not the country, at the JR2 John Ratcliffe hospital, the Churchill and the Warneford and Littlemore hospitals, among others. Health care is a vital issue to my constituents. I have a great personal interest in the NHS and in health care delivery services, having been a member of the old Berkshire area health authority from 1979 until the demise of areas last year, when I was appointed to the new west Berkshire district health authority, of which I am currently vice-chairman. Working so closely with the health authority adjacent to my constituency and within the Oxford region has provided me with a most useful education in Health Service economics and management at a practical level. It has meant that I have been able to understand the implications of activity within the service in my constituency, and thus I hope to do a better informed job on behalf of those I represent. On this occasion I feel strongly that it would be of benefit to the House to share some of the observations that come from operating close to the heart of the service from the realistic standpoint of those who bear the responsibility of carrying out the policy of the Government on a day-to-day basis. In all the great furore that has surrounded recent events, I have sadly heard all too little being said that was based in any way on a realistic understanding of how the Health Service is actually operating. It does nothing but damage to the NHS when the argument is all about emotion, and facts are ignored. I shall confine my remarks, in what I understand should, by tradition, be a non-controversial speech, to the most recent event that has supposedly impacted so crucially on the NHS—the circular HC 83 (16) on cash limits and manpower targets for 1983–84. First, a criticism. I have to confess many misgivings, which are shared by those working in the NHS, about the application of the manpower targets. Those misgivings arise on two grounds. First, their imposition appears to me and many others in the Health Service to cut directly across the supposed increased freedom of management which was held out to be one of the principal benefits behind the recent painful reorganisation. While I welcome the statement that my right hon. Friend made to the House on Tuesday about the work of Mr. Griffiths and his colleagues, the management concept that he endorsed on that occasion as outlined by Griffiths, and with which I heartily agree, cuts right across the idea of arbitrary control of selected individual criteria in district management by the Department in London. Categorisation has hindered rather than helped those of us who try to administer the Health Service. From what I can see, Griffiths has, if anything, pointed out the necessity to reinforce management structures. While that need not be taken to mean an increase in numbers, it makes nonsense of their being, in the main, of category ""B"" status. Ambulancemen are another example of which I am sure the Secretary of State is aware, but I shall not go on. Equally, it is not yet clear—at least at district level—what power of virement we have between the two categories and whether there is still a firm requirement to reduce category ""A"" staff. No doubt my hon. and learned Friend the Minister will touch on that in his reply. Frankly, I must repeat what I understand Mr. Griffiths to have said—that the less the Department tries to interfere in the day-to-day running of district and regional health authorities, the better for the NHS. However, there is another and even more important aspect of this discussion of manpower targeting, and that is the effect on individual districts. I want to illustrate the position by referring to my authority. We agreed with the regional health authority in west Berkshire that a base line of 5,699 whole-time equivalents in March 1983 would be reduced by the princely number of 51. Those base line targets were produced for us by our quarterly computer print-out. The authority met to discuss the position and two revealing facts emerged. First, by the administrator's own admission—I do not censure him or his colleagues in any way; indeed, their hard work and dedication to the Health Service over many years does them great credit—the authority was not in a position to know exactly  what its present manpower levels were so as to effect a comparison at today's date with either the assessment or the target. No doubt in due course the computer will reveal all—albeit several weeks out of date—but for practical management purposes the information was not available, and there is no real machinery for regulating a managed vacancy factor or a manpower watch monitoring scheme. Sadly, there never was a more self-evident justification for the emphasis that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has laid on the need to come to grips with the control of manpower in the Health Service. My authority will attach considerably more attention to that in future. It is remiss of us not to have done so previously. The second fact to emerge, which it is important to remember in the context of what we have heard today, was that our authority probably—I stress ""probably"" because we are not sure of the exact figures—already had a staffing level that was possibly 100 below that set by the Secretary of State, because the normal mechanism of drag on recruitment processing generally comes into operation in the Health Service as elsewhere. Therefore, it will in practice be unnecessary to make any reduction in substantive posts in the health authority in order to achieve the targets set for 1984. That may be a reflection on the system of targeting employed. No doubt my right hon. Friend would be disappointed if the matter were to be allowed to rest there by my authority or by any other. However, it puts into perspective the extraordinary claims that somehow his action has reduced the Health Service to its knees and that we are now, as a result of these extraordinarily modest measures, incapable of operating the National Health Service. The reality of our example simply does not bear that out, as indeed my right hon. Friend has consistently and rightly maintained. I am pleased to have had this opportunity to provide just a small local example—I ask the House to forgive its parochial nature—of what nonsense it is to suggest that the measure is anything other than modest in the extreme. We have also been subjected to the budgetary adjustments that the Chancellor was recently regrettably forced to make on this year's allocations. Again, Oxford region and my authority were no more immune from those adjustments than any other. I have no doubt that some authorities have fared worse and others better, and I make no particular claim in that regard. However, the reality of an individual case may help to belie some of the screams of anguish that I hear regularly paraded before me in the House and elsewhere. The Oxford region acted in a constructive and responsible way to absorb the budget adjustment by means of deferring some capital spending, extending the Milton Keynes commissioning period, and bringing forward some regional development reserves and unspent balances. Of the required adjustment, £300,000 was allocated to reductions in regional and district health authorities' cash spending. Net of joint finance money allocated to my health authority, the reduction required in west Berkshire was £36,000 against an annual revenue budget slightly in excess of £56 million, including those service developments which were initiated as a result of development money being available. At that stage in the financial year when we came to consider the £36,000, it was clear to us, as, I hope, a prudent authority, that we were likely to undershoot our cash limit not by a huge amount in relation to our total budget, but by sufficient to accommodate the £36,000 completely. In other words, the net effect on the   spending of the Health Service in the district is precisely nil. Our treasurer attributes the likely underspending to two factors: first, to the drag on implementation of structural improvements which we foresaw in our annual plan, which is not untypical of any organisation in the public or private sector; and, secondly, to the lower rates of inflation in outturn against our original budget forecasts. That is the real picture behind the recent actions of the Government—a modest manpower proposal, the effect of which, in itself, is truly negligible, and a so-called cut in expenditure which amounts to no more in many authorities than an alteration to the technical underspend at the end of the financial year. Whatever else those measures may achieve, there seems little evidence here that they will produce anything like the effect for which they have, falsely, become so notorious. There are two conclusions to be drawn, one by Conservative Members and another by those who have levelled somewhat intemperate invective at the Government. Conservative Members, believing as we do in the NHS, must be more vigorous than we have been in the past in putting across our clear message, if only there is a will to hear it, that the service is an excellent one in general and that we are determined to achieve better value for money from the immense and increasing resources that are committed to the NHS to improve patient care by more efficient delivery of service to the point of need. As to those who are crying so loudly at this moment, I can only remind them of the cautionary tale of the boy who cried wolf. If the real and important negotiations over the future of the Health Service are conducted in such an unnecessarily hysterical fashion, it can only do harm to the service and patients for whom the complainants claim so heartily to care. There are still large savings to be made and real economies are there for the making in the NHS. We can do much more within our existing resources to improve patient care standards as a result. The Government have shown their willingness to come to terms with the task, and I entreat those otherwise so ready to be critical to lay aside the inflated invective and join us in the constructive provision of an efficient and effective NHS for the British people.
