gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I would ask on this occasion for the traditional tolerance of the House towards a maiden speech. I apologise to the hon. Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) if I do not follow his arguments on this occasion, and I would say generally to hon. Members that if in the course of my brief remarks this afternoon I stray from the path that is normally followed by maiden speakers, that error is entirely one of ignorance rather than of intention. I have the honour to represent in the House the electors of Belfast, North, which is the largest urban constituency in Britain, with an electorate of 75,000. Belfast is a highly industrial city and can be described essentially as a child of the Industrial Revolution. It has vast shipyards, virile aircraft works and a high variety of factories, both in the city and scattered around the suburbs. Many hon. Members representing constituencies in England may have tended to forget—it is only too easy—the days in the 1930s when in their constituencies there were many people who had no work. In Northern Ireland 7·5 per cent. of the insured population is unemployed, which remains a disfiguring scar upon our economy. I will return to that point in a moment. I should like to tell my right hon. Friend the Chancellor that I welcome the Budget. It is a cautious Budget, but, having looked through the figures over the last few months as we have approached the Budget, with the balance of payments danger looming large on the economic horizon, I feel that very few of us could have had any doubt that this was the Budget to expect. The job with which the Chancellor was faced was that of consolidating expansion and ensuring stable prices. It may come as a shock to other hon. Members when I say that from the days when my generation, who were born in the 1930s, started at the age of 14 or 15 reading the newspapers after the war and following current affairs, I cannot recall a single period in which prices were not rising every few months. I do not today blame any party for this. I cannot recall a single period when we were not in the midst of, approaching or just leaving some economic crisis. I do not today blame any party for that. It is, nevertheless, the essential fact which we have to face, and if the Budget contributes to the stability of prices, it must be welcomed. I would, however, say to the Chancellor that I hope that the economic sugar plum will not evade us for very long and that we can look forward next year to some form of substantial relief. I would further say that before we meet to deliberate on next year's Budget, I hope that perhaps my right hon. Friend will have been able to give some relief to the old-age pensioners. I noted with particular care the remarks of my right hon. Friend in his Budget statement when he said: First, steps in changing the climate for private lending have already been taken by the increase in Bank Rate in January and in open market transactions. I must tell the Committee that I think it likely that the time may soon arrive when it would be right that we should take other steps to restrain further expansion of private credit, and we stand ready to do so.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 4th April, 1960; Vol. 621, c. 46.] What do those remarks mean? Do they mean a higher Bank Rate? Do they mean special deposits? What I fear my right hon. Friend means is that we shall have a new credit squeeze in the very near future and that there is a new economic albatross on the political horizon. Without going into the economic merits of the credit squeeze, I feel that there can be little doubt that, in the short term, the recent credit squeeze did a good job and was effective with no tremendous hardship in areas of high employment. But, in areas where there is high unemployment, the effect of the credit squeeze is positively murderous. What happens in an area of high unemployment when there is a credit squeeze? Immediately, there is a fall in public works, a fall in local authority building, a fall in private building, a fall in school building and a fall in factory building. There is a resulting fall in employment in the area. Again, private industry tends to withhold expansion in such an area and there is a loss of potential employment. If one accepts the value of the credit squeeze to the British economy, the problem is how to insulate areas of high unemployment from its worst effects. To put it in another way, can an economic fuse box be built using two different types of economic fuse wire? There are four main aspects of the credit squeeze. First, there are the restrictions on capital issues. In the recent credit squeeze, the limit beyond which one had to obtain the consent of the Capital Issues Committee was £50,000. In Northern Ireland, we were able to apply a separate limit of £10,000. This in itself proves that, at least in one aspect, the credit squeeze is divisible. Secondly, there is the credit policy of the banks. Professor Isles, in his Economic Survey of Northern Ireland, gives at page 328 a very interesting graph showing that the relationship between bank advances and bank deposits in the period 1935–52 remained more or less the same in Northern Ireland and in Great Britain, although I understand that in the recent credit squeeze—I do not have the figures— Northern Ireland banks were slightly more liberal in their credit policy than their cross-Channel counterparts. With an approaching credit squeeze, I suggest that there is an opportunity here for a more liberal policy to be investigated. The third factor in the credit squeeze is the increase in Bank Rate. Is it really beyond the ingenuity of Treasury officials to find a method whereby, in certain areas of high unemployment, there can be a lower Bank Rate for industry?
