gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
To start my maiden speech, I should like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor, Mr. James Johnson, who was undoubtedly held in great esteem and affection by the people of west Hull. I know from the people to whom I have talked in this House that his reputation was great on both sides. His expertise on Commonwealth affairs, particularly African affairs, made him a useful Member of the House. I regard it as a great privilege to serve as the Member for Kingston upon Hull, West. I look forward with great pleasure to serving that constituency with my hon. Friends from Kingston upon Hull, East (Mr. Prescott) and Kingston upon Hull, North (Mr. McNamara). Kingston upon Hull, West is one of three constituencies that are located on the north side of the river Humber. Hull is regarded by many of us as the northern gateway to Europe. It has a good port. It has access to the airport. Moreover, it has a good road system to most parts of the country. The people of Kingston upon Hull, West are particularly proud of the Humber bridge, although it is not within the constituency. Although there are attractive aspects, such as the entry into the city from the north and along the tree-lined roads from the west, there is also extreme social and economic deprivation in my constituency. I view that with great concern. Already in the debate several hon. Members have referred to a gap between the north and the south—the relative opulence of the south and the deprivation of the north. Kingston upon Hull, West is one of those deprived constituencies. Some change must take place to heal the division that now seems to be so strong. I see one of my major tasks as the hon. Member for Kingston upon Hull, West to do something about the cruel injustices that exist. One of the major factors influencing the constituency has been the near destruction of the fishing industry. In the southern part of my constituency there is a road called Messel road, in which until recently there used to be a close fishing community. About 8,000 people were employed in Hull in the fishing industry but now, unfortunately, only a mere fraction of that number are so employed. The people to whom I talk about fishing feel a sense of despair and confusion. They know that in our close inshore, middle and distant waters there are fish to be caught, processed, marketed and distributed and yet my constituency has many people from that industry who are unemployed. At the same time that we have had this devastation of the fishing industry there has been a great growth in poverty. The number of families on family income supplement has doubled in the past four years, as has the number of people on social security payments, and the number of young people on long-term unemployment benefit. It is a bleak picture of my constituency that I bring to the House. There are some very attractive things about the city, and particularly about my constituency, such as the tremendous interest in sport. I am delighted that the Hull City team was the fourth division champions this year and that Hull FC, the rugby league team, is regarded as the best in the world. The hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Hull, East would disagree, so perhaps Hull Kingston Rovers come second on the list. What are the needs of the constituency? The dramatic change that has resulted from the almost instantaneous destruction of the fishing industry means that we must have investment in the constituency. We need an ambitious programme to counter the effect of the loss because of fishing. In the short term, we need to get our people back to work by investing in public projects. There are 30,000 people unemployed in the city as a whole and my hon. Friends the Members for Kingston-upon-Hull, East and Kingston-upon-Hull, North and I have worked with the city council drawing up lists of projects that could get a substantial proportion of those people back to work. We must also invest in high technology industries both in the city and in my constituency. I say this based upon my own experience in industry. I do not wish to sound immodest but I have been in industry for 25 years, before taking my seat. For the first five years of my working life I was a shipyard worker in Her Majesty's dockyard at   Devonport, working as an electrical fitter. In the past 20 years I have been in information technology in the banking, steel, motor, computer and telecommunications industries and I have also worked on how we can help small businesses to survive and improve. I have mentioned information technology because it is undoubtedly one of the major factors determining the future of this country's industrial base. However, we need vision, imagination and the full co-operation of all those involved in the change. I do not want to be controversial and my next remarks are made in a positive way, but I feel that the Government's measures to enhance our industrial base through high technology are insufficient. We need to invest far more heavily and imaginatively than before. After all, we can destroy jobs extremely quickly, but it takes a long time to create new ones. Therefore, there is an inevitable gap that must be filled. We need to invest now. We should have started five years ago because, by their very nature, investment programmes take a long time. Based on my experience in industry, I believe that the Government have a valuable and profound role to play in enhancing our industrial base through those new technologies. Industry wants Government help. The notion that many people have that civil servants and those in government do not understand what it is all about is misleading. The Government have a role to play. Before becoming a Member of Parliament I managed one of the Department of Industry's projects, in which industry and Government worked together. I saw companies bringing forward their development programmes, enhancing their investments and changing their priorities. Therefore, there is a profound and valuable role to be played in future in that regard. When talking about investment programmes in high technology people often say, ""We'll do that in 18 months time when there are new technological developments."" That is the wrong judgment to make, because we have more technology now than we can conceivably cope with. The major factor constraining the development of such new factories—apart from money —is the attitude of people. We must change attitudes. The rate of change of the new technologies is so fast that the boards and management of companies that I have worked with and served need help and guidance from central Government. If we do not co-operate with the trade union movement, the financial institutions and Government Departments, we shall lose out to foreign competition, leading to more job losses, and as a result we shall lose the opportunity of regenerating the British economy. Any policy for investing in such industries in west Hull must be carried out on a regional basis. The shift to the south undoubtedly militates against places in the north-east and north-west. Therefore we need an equitable and efficient regional policy so that funds can be directed into those areas. Indeed, Hull, West should be one of them. However, we need money to do that. If we are to have an ambitious and exciting programme to rebuild our industrial base we must have money. I look forward to seeing what history will have to say about the way in which this country's North sea oil assets, which could have been so vital to our new industries, have been wasted.
