gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
When I first came to this House a few months ago, I made a mental resolve that I would not speak for the first 12 months if I could avoid it, because of the crowded rows of hon. Members eager to make their maiden speeches. I have been constrained to speak on this occasion for a number of reasons. First we have a kindly Minister, which fact encourages one. Then I believe hon. Members of the Opposition conceal their ferocity when-one seeks their indulgence for the first time, and finally I desire to make a comment or two chiefly because of the vast-importance of this Measure. I am happy to share the joy of the Minister, and I think one can say that most hon. Members— I might a moment ago have said all hon. Members, but the last speaker has made that rather difficult—join in giving a warm welcome to this most significant and comprehensive Measure. I was also reassured when I heard the-other day the familiar voice of the right, hon. Gentleman the Member for South Kensington (Mr. Law), who I am sorry is unable to be with us this afternoon. He took pride, I think justifiably, in the-helpful contribution which hon. Members, opposite have made to these proposals. It will be recalled that the Minister himself, and the Prime Minister, conceded that there had been a wide body of approval of this Measure. By general consent, the proposals of the White Paper have been improved on by the Minister. The proposals in the Bill are, in many respects, a considerable advance on the   proposals of the White Paper, and yet the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Kensington, after congratulating the Prime Minister on his good fortune in producing this Measure, went on in a most inexplicable way to say that this was the most reactionary Government of modern times. I confess I could not gather the point of that observation or the consistency of that sentiment. The right hon. Gentleman accused Government spokesmen and the Leader of the Liberal Party of a desire to go back, I think, to 1911. A moment afterwards he was charging this Government with going back to the ""naughty nineties"". Since there is such a wide volume of support for the general proposals in the Bill, which, as I say, are regarded as an advance on those introduced in the White Paper, I think I might venture a few observations on one or two aspects on which there seems to be some difference of opinion. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Saffron Walden (Mr. R. A. Butler) put forward for consideration the suggestion that, in order to obtain a lower payment, we might consider a lower pension, and, in what was perilously near an argument for a reduction in the pensions—although, in fairness to the right hon. Gentleman, it must be admitted that he disclaimed any such intention—he said that only one-third of the present pensioners have applied for supplementary pensions. He reached the conclusion that because only one-third had so applied, there was a case for considering whether the amount proposed by the Government as adequate for that one-third was, therefore unnecessarily generous for the two-thirds who did not so apply. I would make two observations on that point. Many persons in receipt of a pension and who did not apply for the supplementary pension, refrained from applying because of their horror of all that is involved in the means test, and because of the burden that would be placed on sons and daughters who had family responsibilities of their own. Because of that fact, many sons and daughters made contributions in aid of their parents, which they could ill afford to make, depriving their own families of essential things in order to do what they could for their old folk, rather than have those old folk submitted to the means  test which they dread so much. That accounts for the fact that no more than one-third of the pensioners applied for a supplementary pension. I could quote case after case of people who have suffered acute privation rather than make an appeal for a supplementary pension, and no hon. Member on the other side could rebuke any person who took that attitude. The right hon. Gentleman the member for Saffron Walden stated that this was one piece of evidence for his contention that we were, perhaps, overweighting the advantages of this Measure on the side of the aged as against the young. Were he present now, I would assure him that he will not find, on the part of any section of the young and vigorous who are making those contributions for the support of their own parents, any objection to this so-called generosity towards the aged portion of our population. They are proud that the Government are doing that, and they support the proposals as being, not over generous but the barest minimum that can be justified.  What is the overriding merit of this Bill? I submit that it is that it treats the whole community as one family, and establishes, more than has ever been done before, the principle that we are ""members one of another"" The hon. Member. for Orpington (Sir W. Smithers) probably would not understand what is meant ""members one of another"" This scheme is based on human need— on our needs as human beings and citizens—but while it is based on need, it is not based on means. I think that is as it should be. It is a Measure not of social assistance, but of social insurance, with three parties to the contract— the employer, the employee and the State. There is one exception to this universality to which I wish to draw attention, and to which reference has been made. I will not stress it unduly because of the very fine gesture made by the Parliamentary Secretary in his speech the other evening. I refer to the self-employed person. Perhaps I may be pardoned for saying that I speak as one who has been self-employed from the age of eleven. I may cease to be regarded as self-employed now, but that is a matter which the Minister is considering. It has been stated on this side that the 2,500,000 or so who are included in the category ""self-employed"" are men and women   who, in the main, are economically no better situated than the majority of those in Class 1. I think that will be found from the White Paper. Although they have no better advantage economically, yet the proposal of the Government is to continue the disability of 24 days, because it was thought they might carry those earlier weeks of sickness. I suggest that comes perilously near to the introduction of a means test, and the Government accept that a means test is wholly obnoxious on this side of the House. Therefore, I congratulate the Minister and his colleague on expressing their willingness to consider anew this provision, and if the self-employed persons were prepared to pay an additional amount to consider how they would be brought into the Measure.  Let me assure the Minister that there will be no objection on the part of the self-employed persons to paying the proper premium. They have never asked for any privilege that the rest of the community have not got, but they have asked that there should be no penalty and that they should not carry the penalty of 24 days. I have seen the testimony of important officials, including the general secretary of what is, perhaps, the largest association of retailers in this country. They have said that they are willing to meet the additional cost of 5d. or thereabouts, and I am happy to congratulate the Minister on the fact that he is now willing to consider the introduction of equality in a matter of benefits. I know there is a difficulty in administration, and perhaps the details are better considered at a later stage. It is, of course, clear that a self-employed person gets a doctor's certificate which will be just as trustworthy as that concerning any other person— all doctors' certificates are trustworthy— but when the employed person is sick there is, of course, a check that he is not at work and not receiving his wages. The Minister might consider whether he would wish to have a second check for the self-employed person, by which he would be asked to sign an undertaking to the effect that he would not engage in his normal occupation. One could not, of course, suggest that he should not be on or about his place of business, because in many cases his place of business is his home, but there will be many cases in which the moment illness commences income stops. If the self  employed window cleaner, or the man who repairs our boots, does not work we do not pay him. They are in the same category as the employed person whose income stops when he is sick. I am sure the large numbers of self-employed persons in this country will accept this as a tremendous advance over the White Paper. We have advanced from the long period of 13 weeks proposed by Sir William Beveridge to four weeks. Now the Minister holds out the hope that we might abolish those four weeks and bring in those persons on a footing of equality. He will earn the gratitude and respect of a large body of traders in this country who are increasingly recognising that this policy of the Government means so much to them, not only in sickness but also in their businesses because they are helping to maintain a high level of expenditure. I would like to add a word about the self-employed person who is a voluntarily insured person at the moment. Unless the Minister had seen his way to accepting the suggestions offered to him the self-employed person would have been in a worse position than formerly, because under his voluntary insurance he is covered for three days and under this scheme he would have been so much worse by having to wait 24 days. I am glad my first words in the House have been in support of so wide a proposal, touching the health, happiness and peace of mind of the great majority of our people. There must be acceptance of the basic fact, that we are members one of another, ""that we cannot have real individual success, unless it is shared by the whole community, while the sickness and. privations of a few mean, ultimately, the deterioration of the whole race. The recognition of those things has been set forth here. With regard to the complaint which has come from Members on the other side of the great speed—the bewildering speed—with which the Government are doing things, one can only say that there comes from the ordinary people of this country not a cry to put the brake on, but a cry of ""More power to their elbow.""
