gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am glad to be able to make my maiden speech in this important debate. It is usual for a new Member to say something about his immediate predecessor. For me, this is a positive privilege. Sir Edward Boyle, now Lord Boyle of Handsworth, commanded great respect and affection from both sides of the House. He served my constituents with distinction for nearly 20 years and   Handsworth is a better known place for his having been its M.P. So long as courage, compassion and conscience are the hallmarks of this House, the name of Edward Boyle will be remembered. It was, of course, a deliberate decision of his to accept the Vice-Chancellorship of Leeds University. Handsworth's loss is Leeds University's gain, and, if I might dare to say so, this House's loss is the other place's gain. After the antics on Leeds campus reported in the weekend newspapers, I might say that he has left the tranquil waters of this House for the turbulent seas of university life. Although I cannot hope to match his talents, I hope that his talents will not be lost to the service of our nation in the years to come. Handsworth, of course, is part of the great city of Birmingham, which in turn is part of a massive conurbation. Handsworth has problems to match this description. One of the greatest is that parts are physically declining in appearance. I am ashamed to say that one or two parts of my constituency, like parts of other towns and cities in our Kingdom, are a disgrace physically and a blot on the conscience of any nation that calls itself civilised. There is a feeling, not only here but outside, that politicians and Parliament have for too long talked about pollution in all its forms and that the time has come to act. Therefore, on behalf of my constituents and speaking also as an architect and town planner, I welcome the White Paper because it restructures Government to deal with the problem of environment. I can speak with only a little knowledge in relation to this debate on the problems of environment. I believe that the new Department proposed embraces some of the functions that most affect our environment, although not all. What I consider to be the arch polluter of our age, the aeroplane, apparently is not within the orbit of its responsibilities. I wish the Secretary of State, his three Ministers and four Under-Secretaries every success in dealing with the massive problem of the increasing pollution of our land. They will need every piece of energy and influence to muster the resources to deal with it. I also welcome this Department because, for the first time in our history,  I believe, the Government recognise that the problems of environment are and should be a primary political issue and should take equal place with the other such issues. For too long, the environment has been spared only if it is convenient to economic considerations. I believe that not only economic consideration but other ones should determine the style and the results of our Government. I believe that we are moving into an age, if not a decade, in which more and more people want to see the environment protected. That is a popular statement, but sometimes unpopular decisions have to be made. I believe that people are viewing with greater concern, for example, the pylons that are strangling and straddling beautiful parts of our countryside. I believe that people are becoming more conscious of Ministerial decisions as to the position of a brewery and whether it should be placed in the countryside, and I believe that there are other than economic considerations which should determine, for example, whether there should be opencast mining in a beautiful estuary in Wales. Of course this debate is not on environment, but it is on the structure of Government to deal with environment, and I would make two brief points on that, the first of which is directly related to that new structure of Government. It would be eminently suitable if the new Government at their convenience, brought to this House a new Environment Bill, which, apart from extending legislation, would consolidate all the different pieces of legislation that there have been in the last few years. Whether it is the Litter Act, the Clean Air Act, the Civic Amenities Act, perennial Housing Acts or biennial Town and Country Planning Acts, there should be a consolidating environment Act because of the importance of the environment. I put that forward as a constructive proposal. Secondly, for too long people have thought in terms of the environment and planning the environment in its negative aspects. It is time for the Government to make it a positive instrument of policy. After the war the National Parks were set up—and now there are ten of them—whose aim was to preserve the beauty of some of the most beautiful parts of our countryside. I see no reason—and I offer   this as a suggestion—why the Government should not designate urban parks which would eradicate the worst scars of some of our conurbations and, through a positive plan, try to improve the environment in the worst parts rather than keep the environment of the best parts of our landscape. Pollution and the threat to the environment is increasing at a rapid pace. It is gaining momentum the whole time. I would hope—and I am delighted to hear that the Opposition do not intend to divide the House on the part of the White Paper dealing with the environment—that there might be a bi-partisan approach to this pressing political problem. I recognise the start made to deal with the environment by the last Government. I recall the parts of the Housing Act, 1969, dealing with conservation and improvement areas. I also recognise their setting up of the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution, although I am tempted to observe that I hope that its conclusions are a little more pointed than the long-windedness of its title. A start has been made. The nation demands that this Parliament shall take a decision to safeguard the environment. If we succeed, the people will look back at this Parliament with pride. If we fail to act in this decade, one thing is certain: we shall become the curse of future generations.
