gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I wish to pay tribute to my friend and predecessor, the late John Taylor. We in West Lothian know that he died of overwork in the service of his constituents, in the service of his party, and in the service of his country. The Committee might also wish to know that on Saturday I was asked by George Mathers, Who was Member for West Lothian between 1935 and 1951, if I would pass on his good will to those on both sides of the House of Commons who knew him. As a maiden speaker, I am entitled to certain courtesies from the other side of the Committee. Therefore, I think that I ought not to indulge in my profound and controversial criticisms of the Government's educational thinking but, will confine myself to certain problems of  the secondary school, particularly related to the better use of teaching power. The first of these problems concerns headmasters. Is it really imperative that headmasters, who are highly skilled and successful teaching practitioners, should be tied up with milk returns and with lengthy telephone calls to education offices, often about nothing much in particular, and should sometimes be concerned with being taxi-man to wee Jeanie who decides that she is feeling ill and wants to go home? There is a case for having a special administrative assistant who is not just a shorthand-typist, possibly recently just out of school, who is of the calibre to take a whole range of minor decisions. A new profession should be set up, which could be called the School Administrative Service, with promotion and rates of pay comparable to branches of the Civil Service. I am convinced that headmasters, in their own being and in their own souls, would be happier people if they could return to the classroom for, say, half a day each schoolday, if they could make use of their teaching and their academic expertise, and get to know some of their pupils better. Is it not strange that a man who has been a successful teacher of algebra or French for a quarter of a century should suddenly find himself transferred to a totally different occupation because the business of petty administration, being headmaster of a school, is totally different from the profession of a teacher? Let us relieve these skilled men of their chores and set up a school administrative service to help them. Hon. Members may say that this really would not do and that headmasters must be available to interview parents. This is where I part company from the bulk of present educational thinking. I do not believe that headmasters are the people to interview the majority of parents. This should be done by the class teacher, the form teacher, or what some of us call the ""register"" teacher. I can tell the Committee that—never mind their politics—the majority of the electors of West Lothian, in their capacity as parents, are profoundly dissatisfied with headmasters' interviews. They frequently say—whatever their   politics ""The rector has never heard of my Peter. He was just a name to him before I went to the interview."" To be fair, a rector cannot be expected to know every child, except by sight or by name, among 850 different pupils. Therefore, the present suggestion is that we allocate from the Estimates which we are now discussing money to provide—perhaps at a fee of £3 a time—for individual teachers to come to a clinic, once a month, on an advertised date, between the hours of say six o'clock and nine o'clock in the evening. First, I wish to deploy the advantages of such a proposal and then to focus the attention of hon. Members on the snags. The first advantage is represented by the contact which would be established. Often parents have volunteered to me, in my capacity as a canvassing politician, ""My George cannot get along with Mr. X. Mr. X is, therefore, Q.E.D. a bad teacher"". But in my capacity as a teacher, Mr. X may be known to me as a competent and conscientious colleague. It seems to me that there is nothing between the parent and the teacher which could not be put right in a five-minute interview if they were able to get to know each other and if a bid were made by the teacher for parental support. This whole concept of a confidential contact assumes added importance when many teachers have to travel, for instance, from Edinburgh to Bathgate or from Kilmalcolm to Glasgow. In the days of the ""village dominie"", who was a ""kenspeckle figure"" I should not have been urging the Government to pay for teachers to provide interviews. But in this year, which some people call ""42 after Ford"" one must accept the fact that many teachers have precious little connection with the community in which they operate. I think that the timing of the clinic from, six o'clock until nine is crucial to my argument. It is partly that between nine o'clock in the morning and four o'clock in the afternoon a teacher is too busy to see parents individually. It is partly because the fathers are out at work, but much more important is the point that pupils do not want their parents to be seen in the school during school hours. This is related to the whole ""folk lore"" of children. Somehow they think that by coming to school in school hours their parents would be carrying favour with the teachers. They use reasons which would seem strange and curious to the adult world, but to children there are pressing reasons why parents should not come to the school during school hours. These feelings must be respected. I know many parents who would like to visit the school but when asked by me, ""Why did you not put this right with the rector?"" they reply, ""Jeanette did not want me to come."" We may think that this is trivial, but it is not trivial in the actual circumstances. It would be totally different if we paid fees for assistant teachers to conduct interviews out of school hours. I think that young teachers would gain from such clinic interviews. The first thing that they would gain would be that elusive status which they want so much but which cannot be bestowed by we politicians or legislators. Status would come to those who met parents and who could explain to them all the good things that were being done for their youngsters. Far too often the only contact between a travelling teacher and a parent occurs at a time when things go wrong; at a time of minor crisis; at a time when there is likely to be antagonism. I would wish for additional contacts, and I think that this might be achieved by out-of-school-hours clinics. Secondly—I would rather that hon. Members did not smile at this; it is important to a young man fresh from training college—if they had these interviews, young teachers would get some of the appreciation that they richly deserve, or often richly deserve. Frequently the criticism is made that teachers in their forties are cynical, frustrated and—worst of all—sarcastic. They would not be cynical or frustrated or sarcastic, I believe, if in their early twenties or early thirties they had had a word of appreciation. I am not asking for flattery for my colleagues. I am making the observation that many parents, sometimes relatively inarticulate people, would like to say, ""Thank you"" to the teachers for what they have done. But they have not the opportunity to do so. The House may be assured that   a small proportion of unsolicited encouragement would have a disproportionate effect on the output and the quality of the output of teachers. I think that from these individual interviews young teachers would get an understanding of their pupils that would serve them well in their relations with youngsters, and would certainly serve them in good stead when they become headmasters. Hon. Members may take it from me that there is a certain quite important dividend in the thought in the minds of the youngsters, ""Well, teacher kens my dad."" That goes a long way and can be very helpful. There are objections to teachers' clinics. The first is the parent-teacher association. Many schools do not have parent-teacher associations. I do not believe, when the first contact is made in an atmosphere of tea and scones, that a parent gets on the same wavelength as the teacher in discussing a number of views. I do not think that at these meetings the serious business that both parties would like to discuss can very well be discussed, particularly in the environment of a mass of other people. The second objection to teachers' clinics is of an altogether different and more weighty nature. It is that the teachers will make mistakes and that they do not have enough experience. Certainly they will make blunders. But I would wager that the young teacher will give more satisfaction to parents than would a headmaster to whom a pupil is no more than a name on a record card. The idea of a fire-eating parent who will bully young teachers is a myth, because 98 per cent. of the parents who take the trouble to come would be helpful to a young and inexperienced teacher. Those same parents may be very annoyed with a rector who gave second-hand answers. Equally, in anticipation of being confronted by parents, the quality of a teacher's work may well improve. I find it quaint that I am supposedly fit to represent 59,000 electors in this House of Commons. Yet, two months ago, under the system, I should not have been considered fit to interview a couple of parents at my registered class. What I claim for myself in the way of good sense I would certainly claim, neither more nor less, for every teacher in his  twenties. Given their head they can take responsibility and failure and will be the better and more proved educators for it. I would ask the Secretary of State to give them their head and give them responsibility, when he will get far more of them. There are problems connected with the wastage of time by skilled teachers. One thinks of the hours spent toiling away with difficult bandas and obstinate cyclostyle machines preparing papers or notes for classes. One thinks of the time spent on mechanical corrections which could be done by anyone over the age of twenty-one. I am not complaining about the seven or eight hours which it would take any conscientious person to correct the compositions of a third-year class of forty. That is fair enough, and it needs the mature judgment of a teacher. But I am complaining about work which could be done very easily by other people. One also thinks of interruptions of class work. This may seem trivial to the House of Commons, but I am certain that it depreciates the efficiency of a teacher by at least 15 per cent., particularly such things, for example, as the objectionable practice of sending junior secondary pupils round the mixed school with messages. The deduction which they draw is, ""Teacher can easily spare us from the class. Our education is not very important to him nor to the authorities."" In these circumstances, I solemnly suggest to hon. Members that every department in every secondary school should have a secretary. Hon. Members may think this is going too far and is ridiculous, but every puppy business executive in the City of London seems to have a secretary. I do not take the view that teachers should not have a priority over puppy business executives. If hon. Members boggle at that, they would probably approve of appointing laboratory assistants to every science department. This is a priority. I am most concerned with the problem of the ""lost"" pupils, by which I mean those who have embarked on five-year courses but suddenly leave at 15 or 16 for no very articulate reason. It is partly a matter of inadequate fourth-year grants. When the Secretary of State asks where he should inject money into the system, I suggest it would be   most worthwhile to inject it into fourth-year grants, particularly for girls. It may not always be a question of the actual purchasing power of the family. What teenagers tell me—many have said this—is, ""We have two or three brothers or sisters and we feel it would be an embarrassment to our parents to go on living on them any longer."" So, if the right hon. Gentleman has money to inject into the system, here is the place to do it. It is not wholly a financial question. There is the need for patience and sympathy during the time of puberty and biological change. I know boys and girls who were good scholars at 13 and again at 17 but at 15 drove me as a teacher to despair. Those are the ones who either by luck or courage have stayed on. What about all those of 15 and 16 who took a snap, hasty decision to leave school? I believe they and the country are the worse for it. Unfortunately, these biological differences coincide with a change in academic life. The fourth year in mathematics is the time they start calculus and in history they have to start to answer questions which require judgment no longer will the simple regurgitated answer of fact do. At this difficult point marginal pupils need help. It seems significant that in a town of 12,000, in West Lothian only two pupils are attempting higher mathematics and both are being privately coached by the ex-rector of the school, who is in his mid-seventies. What he says is meaningful: ""I have taught them a little mathematics, but I have helped them to find out for themselves how to work."" When the Secretary of State says that he wishes that Scots pupils would do more thinking for themselves, I suggest to him that they need to be helped to think for themselves. It is in the light of these considerations that I make the suggestion that generous funds should be given to any education authority which is prepared to hire retired teachers to give special coaching to marginal pupils at the request of their headmaster. There would be advantages in this. It could be done either in the school or in private homes by retired colleagues. It would augment their meagre pension. I hope that any  money they were to receive if this scheme were adopted would not be deducted from their rightful pension. It would also give an opportunity for those who have neither the health nor qualifications to go on teaching at 67 or 68 a class of thirty-seven or forty pupils and it would give them a feeling that they were wanted. There is nothing more ridiculous in our society in the nineteen-sixties than the idea that a man who is working full speed ahead at 64 must suddenly cease at the magic date of his 65th birthday. Having gone full steam ahead on Friday afternoon, he then must do no more work on Monday morning because he has reached the magic age of 65. Surely there is an argument for allowing people to cease work gradually? In the light of this, I suggest that five groups of two or three pupils might go to retired teachers once a week each, or that teachers of 70 to 75, if they have the inclination, might have two or three groups of pupils twice a week. Some teachers might say, ""Let us retire in peace"". I would not inflict extra work on them, but I know many who would welcome such a scheme, not chiefly on financial grounds, but chiefly on humane grounds because they would feel that the world still needs them. I know of youngsters who would reap the benefit from such an idea. I know that some will say, ""Can we afford the schemes you have produced this afternoon?"" I prefer to put it the other way and to say, ""Can we afford not to do these things?"".
