gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the House will forgive me if I do not follow closely the compassionate and thoughtful speech made by the hon. Member for Wallasey (Mrs. Chalker) on this occasion of my own maiden speech, except to say that I thoroughly enjoyed listening to her and that the speech was as attractive as is the hon. Lady. I have the privilege and the honour to represent the Edmonton constituency which was represented in this House by Austen Albu for more than 25 years. I believe that he was liked and respected on both sides of the House. I am sure that hon. Members will share my view that his retirement at the election was a loss not only to Edmonton but to Parliament. He is a man of honesty and great courage. He never trimmed his sails or adjusted his principles for the sake of expediency. He earned the respect and devotion of the people of Edmonton and left behind him a record of achievement for the people he represented that I will find hard to equal. It is, I believe, customary in making one's maiden speech to refer to the nature of the constituency one represents. Edmonton is a place with a character of its own. Joined with the former boroughs of Enfield and Southgate to form the new London borough of Enfield, it has a history going back a thousand years. It is a thriving, hard-working community, with many industries within its boundaries. It provides work for many of those who live there. At the same   time, many thousands of others who live in Edmonton commute to work in London. Edmonton is bisected by two of the largest traffic routes into and around London—the A10, or Great Cambridge Road, and the A406, the North Circular Road. Like my predecessor, I can envisage that much of my parliamentary attention will be focussed on these roads and on the effects that they have on the people who live in Edmonton. Noise, smell and general damage to the environment are suffered by many people who live in Edmonton. I say at once that I fully recognise that unless we are able to manufacture, transport and export our goods there is a bleak economic outlook for the people of Edmonton. At the same time, I ask myself why thousands of people should suffer abominably for the sake of a marginally faster traffic flow, a marginally more direct route to or from our great works and their customers. Urban development and urban living have brought not only the benefits of a more efficient exploitation of our resources but, in their train, many hazards to health, both mental and physical, I for one will want, before approving great changes, to examine in great detail and depth any proposals which affect the peace of mind and ability to live peacefully of the people of Edmonton. I believe that it is very important that we strive to redress the imbalance in our society. Despite progress towards greater equality of opportunity, we know that this is far from within reach, particularly in education. There are still parts of our cities and towns where inequality, deprivation and lack of adequate tools to do the job mean that many of our children are disadvantaged before they start. Edmonton is no exception—I do not claim it as such—when I say that there is an urgent need positively to discriminate in favour of those parts of our boroughs where our children are the recipients of all the disadvantages. Already living in less-well-endowed communities, they suffer a lack of adequate open space and decent housing, and very often receive their schooling in inferior or outdated school buildings. This is why I was so dismayed by the savage cuts in education expenditure which emerged as part of the overall cut-  back in public—in particular local authority—expenditure in December last year. In Edmonton this has meant that plans made by the Enfield Council, to which I wish to pay tribute for its endeavours and intentions, have had to be severely curtailed. It has meant that projects for pre-1903 schools due for replacement or remodelling have had to be deferred; the replacement of Croylands Infants School has been deferred, as well as the replacement of the junior school; the replacement of All Saints' Girls School and Latymer Boys Junior School has been deferred; the remodelling of Raynham Junior School has also been deferred, while the project for the replacement of the Eldon and Hounsfield Secondary Schools, both due to start in 1975–76, could be put back till goodness knows when. The replacement of furniture and equipment for the youth service has been badly affected. These schools, these children and these communities need our financial support, not a kick in the teeth. They deserve better, and I intend to try to see that they get it. As has been said by other speakers in the debate, teacher shortage throughout London affects every borough. Edmonton is no exception. Pupils in two of the five secondary schools in Edmonton are already being sent home early because of the teacher shortage, which means that they are missing part of their education. Two others are on the point of following suit. I heard only yesterday that an Edmonton primary school was on the verge of having to send pupils home early. Some of the pupils who are being sent home are preparing for their 0-levels and CSE examinations in June. It is bordering on the scandalous that we so manage our financial priorities as seriously to jeopardise the future of our children by subjecting them to these disgraceful pressures and tensions. I have every sympathy with the teachers—and the local authorities, including Enfield—who are in a situation that is not of their own making. More money and a higher priority for education within the global budget are necessary. The Government's intention in education, as contained in the Gracious Speech, shows that more resources will   be available and that there will be a concentration on areas of special and urgent need. That must be of benefit to the people, and especially the children, of Edmonton, and I give those proposals my warmest support. I very much hope that the new Secretary of State for Education and Science will be able to increase the funds available to sustain and expand one of the bravest experiments of the former Labour Government—the Open University. The university has been keenly supported from the outset by the Prime Minister and will always owe much to the enthusiasm and determination of Baroness Lee. I declare an interest, in that I am a student of the university. With tens of thousands of others I am benefiting from and enjoying this late academic opportunity. The university is rightly called the university of the second chance. It brings to many the opportunity to enjoy a level of education which, because of their domestic circumstances, it was impossible for them to obtain from orthodox channels. Because of financial stringency the number of students it can take is severely restricted, the range of courses it can offer is limited in choice; and the need to serve the students by television makes the use of television a principal factor which impinges upon the argument concerning the use of the fourth television channel. At present television demands of some students a viewing time for tuition of seven o'clock in the morning. It makes my time of 7.40 on a Sunday morning seem positively leisurely. The Open University is an educational provision that is in great demand. It fulfils a desirable social and educational purpose, calling for increased and expanding Government support. I have every confidence that that will be forthcoming. It is customary to declare one's general interest. I am proud to declare that I have a long association with the British Co-operative movement. I continue my deep commitment and involvement by presently serving as a member of the board of directors of the Enfield Highway Co-operative Society. I join 15 other hon. Members who are sponsored by the British Co-operative movement and who will seek to promote, protect  and advocate the best interests of more than 12 million individuals who have voluntarily combined in retail societies to create a force for good. The Co-operative movement, besides being a highly successful commercial organisation, has social aspirations which are widely recognised as worthy of support. As the debate embraces the social services I would say the whole of the Co-operative movement rejoices in the specific reference in the Gracious Speech to the Government's intention to give special assistance to the handicapped and particularly to handicapped children. One of the campaigns waged for many years by thousands of like-minded people was designed to improve the lot of the chronically sick and disabled—an often neglected section of our community. The deep identification with this campaign of the hon. Member for Manchester, Wythenshawe (Mr. Morris) is a source of pride to the Co-operative movement, and his just recognition by his appointment as the first Minister to be responsible for the disabled is a cause of immense satisfaction. I offer him my warmest personal congratulations. Finally, I wish to declare not a pecuniary but an abiding interest in local government. I had the good fortune to serve as a member of the Enfield Borough Council—thereafter the London Borough of Enfield—throughout most of the 1960s. That service taught me in a modest way both the art of government and the constraints that prevail in government. Those of us in the House—and there are many on both sides—who have served in local government are well aware of the immense amount of time given to the community by officers and councillors. We in the House must surely recognise that the closest possible collaboration between national and local government is essential if we are to serve the people whom we seek to represent. Local government touches the homes and the workplaces of the people every bit as much as does national government. It is highly important that Members of Parliament fully understand the problems and aspirations of those who seek to serve our communities in local government, and I shall, therefore, take a particular interest in ensuring not only that those who serve in local government understand more fully the views of the   House but also that the House is left in no doubt as to the views and aspirations of those who serve our communities in local government.
