gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg the indulgence of the House for this my maiden speech. I had not the intention of speaking so early in the Session, because I feel that new Members should be often seen but seldom heard. However, as the Debate is on Service matters, and as I left the Service only   three weeks ago, I feel I must get up and speak for the chaps I have left behind me. I have myself suffered two alleged rises in pay and one cut during my service. There was little or no difference except that the cut cost me a little more. That is quite true, and most soldiers will tell you, ""Do beware of a rise in pay, because by the time the Treasury get their hands on it, it will result in a out."" I feel that we can get a Regular Army now, if we pay adequately. For too long the Regular Army has been badly paid. That is the reason why we are not getting recruits, and why we are not getting the right type of officer or the right number of officers joining the Army. Some people think that that is not the reason. They like to think so because they do not want to put their hands in their pockets and spend money. I say that we shall not get our Regular Army unless we pay the soldier, the sailor and the airman an adequate wage—a wage that is equivalent to his opposite number in civil life. That is what we were told the Labour Government achieved in 1945. I say that they in no way achieved that, because the Treasury eventually got their hands on the soldier's pay and would not compare the conditions properly. They said that the soldier got his rations, his clothing, his barracks; and they forgot all the things that the soldier has to do. They forgot that he works overtime and gets no money for it; they forgot that he has to sleep behind a bit of scrub or in a trench and gets no extra pay for that either; they forgot that he has to leave his family to go overseas; they forgot that he has to keep moving his children from one school to another every time there is a whim to move him. That is something that the civilian does not have to do. The soldier has any number of inconveniences to put up with. He spends many months and sometimes years away from his family and that is worth a bit of extra money. No one is going to suffer these inconveniences unless he gets some compensation for it. I say that the soldier has not been given a square deal, and that we shall not get a Regular Army until we give him a square deal. As soon as we try to do that, and as soon as we pay adequately, we shall get a Regular Army. I think that we shall have to  try that because otherwise we shall have to go on with conscription for ever. Once upon a time an officer went into the Army because his father and his grandfather had been in it before him, and he may at that time have had a little money to back him. Some officers even used to give their pay to their batmen. Those days have gone; people have not the money now. It is no good going into the Army today purely for tradition because half that has been wiped out of the Army. One cannot guarantee that one will go to the regiment one wants to, and if one gets there, there is no guarantee that one will stay. To me it was worth a lot. I knew that I could go to the regiment of my choice, and that I could say there as long as I wanted to. Until we can restore the prestige of the Army and pay adequately we shall not get the men. We have to remember that the soldier in modern warfare is getting too old at 40. That also applies to the soldier after he has left the Army. There are not enough jobs outside cinemas and theatres to keep the old sergeant-major with a long row of medals. The man of 40 is now finding it extremely difficult to find a job. Any hon. Member who does not believe that can go down to my constituency and see the 4,000 unemployed there at the moment; then he can judge what chance a sailor or soldier coming back, with no trade and no background, has got to get a job these days. In these days of full employment there are 4,000 unemployed in my constituency, and I say that a soldier cannot get a job there. That must be borne in mind, because with the present cost of living, a soldier's pension is quite inadequate to keep him nowadays. There was a time when that pension with a little extra from a few odd jobs would keep a man; but now an ex-soldier has to get full time employment in order that he can keep himself with the pension that once would provide for him. Pensions and the cost of living have not kept pace. Nor has our pay risen at the same rate as the cost of living, and that must be recognised otherwise we shall not get the recruits we need. I should also like to stress that at the moment, owing to the shortage of men in the Regular Forces, directly a man signs on again for 12 years and over, he is   sent overseas again. During the last three years I have had complaint after complaint about men being sent overseas immediately after signing on. That happens not only in the Army but in the Navy as well. That cannot be remedied until we have a Regular Army large enough to allow a man to have a reasonable time at home after he has returned and signed on again. That must be done in order to keep these men in future. There are many other things I should like to draw attention to, but as time is short I will mention only one other thing. I wish to refer in particular to the speech of the hon. Member for South Ayrshire (Mr. Emrys Hughes), who seems to think that men join the Army to get a house. I think the former Secretary of State for War, now Minister of Defence, rather overstated his case. There has been no rush to join the Army owing to its excellent housing situation. It is not bad; it is a great deal better than some aspects of civilian housing, but it is far from good. On the other hand, we in the Army feel that the barracks which are at present being built are over-luxurious. I certainly feel that personally. Recently, I have seen barracks being built at Tidworth so luxurious that no soldier would ever have dreamed he would ever sleep in a 'barrack like it. The soldier needs a good barrack; he needs a place where he can sit down and rest, and where there is a fire; but he does not want a mat beside his bed, or a counterpane to go over his bed; he merely throws his boots on it. In my opinion, the soldier would far sooner have an extra couple of bob a day. In fact, the ex-soldiers who were building this barrack block told me, when I was taken round to see these exhibition barracks, that they would far sooner have had an extra couple of bob than this ""pansy"" array which now goes into the make-up of a British Army barrack. I saw barracks in Germany which I thought were first-class. There was nothing effeminate about them; they were good, manly places where a fellow could have quiet, could keep himself warm, and there were decent beds. That is all the soldier wants. The soldier requires company; he likes being in a barrack room with seven or eight other chaps. Directly he is put in isolation he feels that he has gone to detention, and he does not like it a bit. I say  that the soldier likes being with his pals. Before concluding this, my maiden speech, I should like to stress once more my absolute conviction that we can get a Regular Army if we pay the men adequately; if not, we shall not get the men.
