gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a very great honour for me to have been elected the Member of Parliament for Worthing, and in making this my maiden speech I crave that indulgence which, by tradition and by courtesy, hon. Members customarily extend to those addressing the House for the first time. For more than 18 years the constituency of Worthing was represented by Brigadier Sir Otho Prior-Palmer, and on this occasion I should like to begin by paying tribute to him for the services which he gave to the House, more particularly in recent years in connection with N.A.T.O. affairs, and also in helping constituents with their problems. I should also like to add a personal word of thanks to him for the kindness which he has shown to his successor, because continuity is very important in constituency affairs. It would appear that commercials for holiday resorts are in order and I should like to add a word for Worthing, which is a deservedly famous holiday resort on the South Coast. In recent times, Worthing has also become a place to which people find it pleasant to retire. I have been studying a recent publication covering United Kingdom towns with populations of more than 50,000 and I found that Worthing has more people over the age of 65 than any other town in the country. It is, therefore, particularly appropriate that I should make my maiden speech in a debate on pensions. However, I should like to stress that the subject which I shall raise in the main part of my speech concerns not only Worthing, but people in every part of the country and it is a subject in which reform is desperately needed. Before coming to the main subject of the debate, I should say a word of explanation, because in recent weeks economists have not been universally popular and it may appear strange that ""Sunny Worthing"" should have elected a Member who is a disciple of what has been called ""the gloomy science"". The reason for this is that I had the great privilege of beginning to learn economics   at Cambridge, where there is a long tradition of economists going through Marshall, Pigou, Keynes and Robertson. It is true that Marshall, who was first in that line of economists, was perhaps the most mathematical and the most academic, but he always worked with a portrait of a poor man in front of him. I saw that portrait hanging in the library at Cambridge and it is in that spirit of concerning oneself with poor people that I want to approach the debate today. I am second to none in approving and welcoming the Bill, though perhaps one should express a little surprise about it, because one understood from the election addresses of the Labour Party that we were to have a mammoth new scheme, including an incomes guarantee. When my hon. Friend the Member for Finchley (Mrs. Thatcher) queried this, it was suggested that it could not be implemented immediately because the outgoing Conservative Government had not prepared for it. That is not an adequate answer. I tend towards controversy and I do not want to go through the statisical analysis which my hon. Friend the Member for Finchley made earlier, but I should like to take up one point. The figures for the period of the Conservative Government, especially during the last five years, show that pensions have been going up faster than average earnings. The crucial point here is that that is a better performance than the target which the Labour Party now suggests as a long-term target, namely, that average earnings and pensions should merely be linked together. Therefore, our past performance is better than what the present Government believe should be the long-term target. Of course, it is true that the Bill increases the amount of pensions more than recent increases in average earnings, but the Minister's report shows that she has only 2s. 6d. in hand over the increase necessary to cover average earnings and that is likely to be diminished rapidly by inflationary policies. I want now to turn to a matter which is non-controversial, because it is not the accepted policy of either side of the House. I want to stress the case of a group of people for whom very few speak up and for whom it is desperately urgent  that we should speak up. I refer to those old people, their wives and widows, who were left out of the scheme when it was introduced by the Labour Party in 1948, people customarily referred to as ""old-age non-pensioners"". It is a fact that if one tells any member of the electorate that there are people in this country who are over 80 and who get no National Insurance pension, one will not be believed. It is, therefore, essential to publicise the need to do something for these people. This is not a controversial matter, because it is something which every hon. Member ought to support. It is a matter of urgency, because the men in this category are now over 80 and, with the exception of some wives and widows, all the women are over 75. This is not something which can await a long-term appraisal of our pensions policy. It is a true emergency and something on which immediate action needs to be taken. A great deal has been said in the debate about hypocrisy, but there is a point which needs to be made. In ""New Frontiers for Social Security"", the Labour Party's view appeared to be that National Assistance should no longer supplement inadequate National Insurance benefit, but should revert to its purpose of providing a safety net for those who did not qualify for National Insurance—in other words, for the old-age non-pensioners. On the same page of that document we are told of the ""stigma"" of accepting National Assistance relief. What I want to know is: if it is a stigma for those people who are getting National Insurance pensions, why is it not equally a stigma for those who were left out of the scheme in the first instance? I want now to examine the arguments against extending benefits to this group. There are two main arguments. One is that we are concerned with a National Insurance system and the other is that the cost of giving these people benefits at this stage would be too great. It is perfectly clear that we have long since abandoned the actuarial basis for the basic pension. Anyone who studies it can see how far we have strayed. Singularly enough, in the actuarial report for the last quinquennium and in the actuarial report attached to the Bill   there is no reference to this. However, on 17th June, 1963, my hon. Friend the Member for Finchley said: Of those now drawing retirement pensions, the man who retired this year aged 65 could not have contributed, had he entered the scheme in 1926, more than £240 towards the cost of his pension, together with a similar sum on the part of his employer. The capital value of the pension for such a man, if single, is £1,700, and if married, £3,500.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 17th June, 1964; Vol. 679, c. 11.] In other words, the pension of £5 9s. for a married couple had only about 7s. 6d. covered by contributions. This means that the remainder of the amount paid out under the National Insurance scheme came from contributions from people who had not already retired and from the general level of taxation. If a large percentage of the National Insurance pension is not related to contributions, surely the old-age non-pensioner who was left out of the scheme when it was introduced is at least as much entitled to that part of the pension which is not covered by contributions. I believe that we should be quite clear in saying that the insurance argument is not an argument for failing to give pensions without a means test to the old-age non-pensioners. Indeed, I think that we should stress that the increase now proposed in this Bill is not, in fact, due in any way to contributions paid in the past by people who have already retired, and if this sum is available we should consider very carefully the priorities involved and whether one should not make some allowance, not subject to means test, to the old-age non-pensioners rather than to those who are on National Insurance. My next point is that so far as one can see the true contribution which justifies the payment of retirement pension is in fact the service which people have given over their lives to the community. The only way in which one should allow for a contribution is that people who have contributed should have an additional amount on an actuarial basis dependent on the contribution which they have made. I turn to the question of cost. Hon. Members opposite may well say, ""Why has not something been done about this before?"" The explanation probably lies in the fact that if the Labour Government had tried to do it when the scheme  was first introduced, the cost would have been very heavy, and, indeed, it would have been very heavy until quite recently, but I believe that the amount involved is now an amount which it is feasible to spend in bringing these people into the scheme. Regrettably, statistics on this subject are remarkably poor, but so far as one can estimate there are about half a million people who come into the category of old-age non-pensioners. At first sight, I thought that the cost of extending benefits to them would probably not be very great because they would all surely be drawing National Assistance benefit. But the fact is that only about 124,000 of that 500,000 or 600,000 are drawing National Assistance. This surely suggests to the House that something is wrong somewhere. It seems that the gross cost of extending benefits in the way suggested would, at the most, be £100 million and probably the cost would be only about £60 million. It is, therefore, about a fifth of the cost of the Bill which we now have before us. It is helpful to divide the old-age non-pensioners into four groups, dependent on what their present resources are. There must be people in this group, probably not very many, who have considerable resources. In this case, if the benefit is extended to them, they will, of course, pay it back to a considerable extent in Income Tax, and the cost of the whole exercise will be reduced by that amount. Their claim on the basis I have suggested is, of course, quite as good as equally well off people in a somewhat younger age group. The second group are the people who are just above National Assistance level, who were not allowed to contribute to the scheme in the first place because they were just above the income limit which was set. But although they might at that time reasonably have expected to put aside money for their retirement, the amount of money which they in fact put aside was not sufficient in the intervening fifteen years or to keep them at a similar standard of living, because there has been inflation and increases in costs, such as rates. Therefore, these people have found their standard of living constantly   declining. A number of them are now only just above National Assistance level and this means that they have to run down their capital continually. To a man of 80 or woman of 75 this is a constant source of anxiety. Eventually they find that they have to rely on National Assistance subject to the means test. Finally, there is the group below National Assistance level. If they are already on National Assistance the proposal that I am putting to the House will cost no more at all, while if they are below the National Assistance level and have not applied, perhaps because they are people of an older generation who are more independent than our generation, used to the social service system, this is surely a matter which we ought to do something about. We have, then, these three groups. I believe that there is a case for helping all three and that the cost of doing so would not be excessive. We have heard a great deal of talk today about widows' benefits, but the fact is that there are widows whose husbands were above the 65 age limit when the National Insurance scheme was introduced, although they themselves were below it, who were not allowed to enter the scheme as contributory members unless they were out of work. I had a letter only yesterday from a lady whose husband was over 65 in 1948, and who is now fairly elderly herself. Her husband died two years ago and she gets no widow's benefit whatever through no fault of her own, except that her husband was a few years older than he might have been. I put it to the House that this is clearly an injustice which we ought to do something about, far beyond any of the other measures which, quite rightly, are being introduced. This is a question of priorities and I believe that on this question of old-age non-pensioners we have our priorities wrong. I believe, equally, that something should be done about this at the earliest possible moment. I thank the House for the indulgence which it has shown to me in listening to my speech. I am deeply grateful to hon. Members and I trust that my words  will not be considered as a mere formal maiden speech. This is a real problem and one which, as I have said, both sides of the House should surely unite in doing something about.
