gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On making my first speech in this House, I think that all hon. Members will appreciate that my pleasure is tinged with some sadness at the cause of the by-election which has led to my presence in this House. My predecessor was Mr. James Dance, who represented the constituency of Bromsgrove for 16 years. He was much respected in his constituency and well known for his courtesy. He was always as courteous to his opponents, to those who disagreed with him most strongly about matters of party politics, as he was to his supporters. He was always as helpful to his opponents as he was to his friends. I well remember the last occasion on which I saw Mr. James Dance, which was  on the night of the General Election last year. We watched together as the votes were being counted. On that occasion his majority was trebled. He had already said that it would be the last time he would stand for the constituency, and his increased majority was the climax of his political career. It is therefore very sad that he did not live more than a year to enjoy the satisfaction of his victory. He was gracious in triumph and courteous to his defeated opponent. I much appreciated the gestures which Mr. Dance made on that occasion. Throughout his political career he sought, as did his wife, only to serve the people of Bromsgrove and Redditch, and in that aim of service I shall try to follow Mr. Dance's example. It is an honour to represent Bromsgrove and Redditch because in this constituency we have a microcosm of the country as a whole. Brosmgrove is an old market town which now has a large engineering factory, while Redditch is an old industrial town, the centre for springs and needles, which has now been developed and is still being developed as a new town. We have all the problems which that entails both for the new residents as well as the old residents. Many young people are moving into the new town to make their homes there and the arrival of these young families has made even more acute several existing problems in the town. We have been pressing for many years for a new hospital, and the arrival of these young families has increased the need. Mr. James Dance gave active support to an all-party campaign for a new hospital, and I warn the Government that I shall be equally persistent until we obtain this hospital. We also have a rural district, in which I have the pleasure to live. This rural district contains a vital green belt which separates the towns of Bromsgrove and Redditch from the city of Birmingham and the West Midlands conurbation. Mr. Dance was tireless in his efforts to maintain that green belt, and I shall follow his example in that endeavour. Bromsgrove and Redditch are also typical of the rest of the country in having both agriculture and industry. We are directly affected by the motor industry, as is much of the West Midlands. Many people living in Bromsgrove, Redditch and the surrounding countryside are drawn into the motor industry. We have a large Austin factory, part of the British   Leyland Group, within the constituency. Many other people commute to the city of Birmingham, as I did before my election to this House. So we are typical, and it is because we are so representative that the result of the by-election in Bromsgrove was so significant. The issues in that by-election were not local issues. They were national issues. The debate was dominated by two matters—unemployment and the cost of living. This afternoon I will not ask for the indulgence of the House while I talk about the phenomenon of rising unemployment in the West Midlands. Nor do I intend to talk about many aspects of the cost of living which were the subject of debate in the by-election campaign. We discussed mortgage rates, the rents of council houses and the rents of houses in the new town, prescription charges, bus fares and school meals. All these matters are very important, but if one question above all others was discussed, it was the increase in the price of food. I do not intend to enter into the argument about what the Prime Minister did or did not say last June, or what he intended to say then. I do not think it can be denied that the people of Bromsgrove and Redditch thought, rightly or wrongly, that this Government would take action to reduce the rise in prices. It cannot be denied, and it has not been denied by the Minister today, that food prices have risen more rapidly during the past year than during the last year of the Labour Government. I wish that the Minister of Agriculture had given the statistics, because they were notably absent from his speech. The rise in food prices has been more rapid under the Conservative Government than under the Labour Government. These prices are continuing to rise more rapidly, and this situation will continue. We have no less an authority than the Minister of Agriculture for this belief because he came to Bromsgrove during the election. He came to the village where I live and he told us that there would be further significant increases in the price of food during the next few months. He said then, as he said today, that a major part of the reason was to do with inflationary wage settlements, increases which were in excess of the increase in productivity. What no spokesman for the  Conservative Government has told the House, the country or the people of Bromsgrove in particular, is who has had these inflationary wage increases which have affected the price of food. Is it the agricultural workers? Is it the people who work in the factories to prepare and process food? Or is it the men who drive the lorries and distribute the food? Is it the shop assistants who have had these inflationary wage increases? I hope that the Minister who is to wind up the debate for the Government will answer this point and tell us who is responsible for these inflationary wage increases which are affecting the price of food. The major part of the Government's case appears to rest on a reduction in S.E.T. Again, it cannot be denied that during the election last year it was said that the Government would reduce S.E.T. and that this would have an effect on rising prices. The Prime Minister last week went further and told us, in answer to a supplementary question from myself, that a reduction in S.E.T. had already reduced prices and would reduce them still further after 5th July. I accept at once that the Prime Minister was referring to prices in general and not to food prices in particular. I also accept that he was talking about some prices and not all prices. Again I ask the Government to tell us what has been the effect of the reduction in S.E.T. Surely they must be able to tell us by how much the reduction in S.E.T. has reduced the rise in prices, and by how much the reduction in S.E.T. will reduce the rise in prices still further after 5th July. These are the questions which, when I returned to my constituency at the weekend, people were asking me, because in Bromsgrove and Redditch people cannot see the effect of the reduction of S.E.T. A year ago the Prime Minister made an important speech, which he will recognise however much it may be said to have been misquoted. He said that he had an alternative economic policy, which was to break into the price/wage spiral by acting directly to reduce prices. He said: This can be done by reducing those taxes which bear directly on prices and costs, such as selective employment tax, and by taking a firm grip on public sector prices.   I ask the House to note that the Prime Minister referred to selective employment tax only as an example. This was only one of the actions that the Conservative Government would take. In Bromsgrove and Redditch, people are asking what else the Government have done to reduce the rise in prices, because they cannot see it. Their conclusion is the same as mine, that the Government have done nothing, except to reduce S.E.T., to have any effect at all on the rise in prices. I do not want the Minister of Agriculture to be under any misapprehension. Whatever happens when the House votes tonight, the Motion of censure has already been passed on the Government. It was passed by the people of Bromsgrove and Redditch on a date which will be remembered in my constituency for many years—27th May, 1971.
