gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me so early in this Parliament. I hope that this is the beginning of a long career in the House. I am privileged to have been sent here by the electors of Worsley, which comprises parts of the old Leigh, Newton and Farnworth constituencies. I pay tribute to two of my predecessors. I am deeply conscious of the standards set by my hon. Friends the Members for Leigh (Mr. Cunliffe) and St. Helens, North (Mr. Evans). They have been most helpful in the past two weeks when I have been threading my way through the House. The hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Galley) likened it to starting school. In the first few days, I thought that it was rather like being called up for national service. The only difference was that the Ministry of Defence gave me a sight more information about the new organisation than I have received from this one. It will be hard to follow my two hon. Friends. They have set a high standard which I hope to match in time. The area that I represent has always been at the centre of our nation's work. The constituency has embraced the work ethic for many centuries. The people have been industrious, inventive and resourceful. They have also worked on good industrial relations. Industrial relations in my part of the world have been exemplary and cannot be criticised by anyone. There is a long hi story of steelmaking, coalmining, engineering, textile manufacture and other manufacturing in my constituency. Economic depressions have come and gone, but the resilience of the people has always enabled them to keep their heads above water. My constituents have introduced new techniques and industries where others have been lost. We have recently lost a major steelworks, mines have closed and there have been major closures in the textile and garment industries. However, much of that appalling tragedy has been ameliorated by the quality of the work force in the constituency. Nevertheless, I am sorry to relate that the de-industrialisation of the past four years has given a new dimension and meaning to the word ""unemployment"". We are now witnessing the wholesale destruction of large and small enterprises, and it is difficult to see how even the most resilient people can overcome the disaster that is now apparent. Since I arrived here two weeks ago, I have listened for encouragement. I have studied the Gracious Speech, and I find no cause for rejoicing. It is a catalogue of more despair for those whom I represent. At best, the Queen's Speech is irrelevant to the needs of the nation; at worst, it is a recipe for suffering yet to come. I come to the House fresh from local government. I am sorry that I find it difficult to say what the Queen's Speech does for local government. In the past four years many trip wires have been placed in front of local councils. According to the Queen's Speech, the same is to apply in the next four years. I fear for those who rely on local government services for their well-being. Rating controls introduced in recent years have proved to be unfair and unworkable and have caused great hardship. I regret that the Government are intent on further adventures in that direction. I shall do all that I can, inside Parliament and beyond, to frustrate their iniquitous policies. It is ironic that those who created the metropolitan counties less than 10 years ago should seek on a whim to destroy them. Can it be that under Labour control they have done the job of providing for the less well off rather too well for the Government's liking? I suspect that that is so. Much will become clear in the coming months. My party's claim during the election campaign that an alternative manifesto exists will be vindicated. It is there, coded in the Gracious Speech. I come to the House angry at the treatment meted out to my constituents. I assure the House that in the coming weeks and months I shall fight tooth and nail to defend those who are being callously disregarded by the Government.
