gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As an ex-miner of 26 years' standing and with many years' association with the National Union of Mineworkers, it is appropriate for me to make my maiden speech on a Bill dealing with energy. My constituency of Barnsley, East is new and carries a third of the old Dearne Valley constituency which was for years represented by my friend, Edwin Wainwright. He was a man much loved in his constituency, as he was in the House which he holds so dear. He has asked me to express his best wishes to his old friends here. It is apparent to me that Edwin Wainwright's quarter of a century in the House was not wasted. However, I represent a constituency of many mining communities—angry communities who feel that we are now being governed by deceit. A few months ago a ballot by individual and private vote—as is so often advocated by the Government—was conducted of which we all know the result. The House is well aware of that decision, so let me make the House aware too of the anger felt by the miners at certain admissions by the coal board. Miners now know what is meant by the term ""government by deceit"". The Bill is a deceit as it seeks to slice off revenue due to this country from oil. The Conservatives criticise a great deal the subsidies paid to nationalised industries. Their criticisms take no account of the interest that those industries must reply back. The miners and the general public will not be deceived by the indirect subsidy to the oil industry provided by the Bill, no matter how the Government attempt to disguise it. I hope that Conservative Members recognise the extreme cost of the Bill to this country in   terms of jobs, which will be borne by the taxpayer through the cost of the dole. That added cost should be considered with the Bill before us. The Govrnment are seeking unfairly to interfere with free competition, which is very much against Tory dogma. What do the Government mean by ""helping the oil industry""? I suspect their motives to be based more on political dogma—a dogma which is emphatic in trying to bring the National Union of Mineworkers to its knees at any price. That is no way for any Government to establish policies or priorities. However, one riddle has been answered in the debate today. When is a subsidy not a subsidy? When it takes the form of an abolition of royalties. The Government, because of their narrow outlook, have taken sides in the competition on energy. The Government would be better occupied trying to get people back to work, thus creating the demand for energy. It appears that there is no money to be made by the coal industry or Conservative Members would be fighting to privatise it. We are well aware of the lucrative prospects for Selby and the Vale of Belvoir. The greed that brings forward such Bills is of no help to the country. My right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Monklands, East (Mr. Smith) pointed out that the Bill may create jobs in one part of the country but that jobs will be lost elsewhere, particularly in the mining industry. If money is the incentive in such policies, Conservative Members are on the wrong road. The Bill will not create jobs; it is designed only to lose them. I hope that Conservative Members will bear in mind the full implications of this hasty action. I have grave doubts that they can be so :persuaded because when money is flying about it creates strange bedmates. It would appear that the great patriotic feeling in the country has withered in some quarters A great deal has been made of patriotism over the past 12 to 18 months. Why do the people who play on patriotism appear to run away if the country makes something out of an industry? It is unpatriotic to take a paying proposition out of public ownership and give it to private ownership. We oppose the Bill not only because of the subsidies it gives to the Conservatives' friends in the money market but because of the job implications. The country is well aware that some Tories are happy with unemployment at 3·5 million as it helps the free market, but they do not want a free market in industrial relations. The country is well aware that the biggest part of that 3·5 million total is the result of political dogma. I hope that Conservative Members will think seriously before they support the Bill.
