gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I trust that right hon.   and hon. Members on both sides will accord me the indulgence which is customary when a new Member makes his maiden speech. Nine weeks ago I was working at the point of production, at the coal face. It is a unique experience for me to come direct from the coal face to the House of Commons. I am very pleased to have the honour of following the hon. and gallant Member for South Fylde (Colonel Lancaster) in the debate. It proves beyond doubt that democracy works sometimes, because the pageboy is following the baron. As my friend Mr. Harry White, my predecessor in the North-East Derbyshire constituency, would say, ""In making your maiden speech you should be very short and non-controversial."" Mr. White told me only yesterday that the art of making a maiden speech is to get up, speak up and shut up; and I will do that. I represent mainly a heavy industrial constituency. There are 54 opencast sites—something which we in North-East Derbyshire consider to be a sin not only against tie landscape, but against the mining industry as a whole. You will notice, Mr. Speaker, that I mentioned the opencast sites first. I do so because when I used to go to Sunday school treats we were always made to eat the bread and margarine first and keep the cake till last. There are also 14 deep mines in my constituency, mining, on an average, 140,000 tons of coal per week, so it will be seen that the ramifications of the mining industry play a great part in the lives of the people in my constituency. We also have on the west side of Derbyshire a large acreage of some of the most beautiful scenery in the whole of the British Isles, namely, the Ashover area, which was well renowned years ago for its lead production. On the north side we have an area which is at the moment catering for the Sheffield overspill. As one hon. Member opposite foolishly remarked in an article in the local Press during the weekend—I imagine that all new Members of Parliament are supposed to write an article for the local Press—he could not understand why people in Hackenthorpe and Gleadless, although living in Derbyshire and working in Sheffield, were having to pay  rates in Derbyshire and not in Sheffield. According to the hon. Member who wrote that article, I should, presumably, be paying my rates in Westminster and not in Staveley, where I live. In the coal debate in July, 1958, the hon. Gentleman who was then the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Fuel and Power, and who is not now a Member of the House—for which the whole mining industry thanks the electors of Oldham, East—said that the future of the whole British mining industry depended on the health of the coal industry. He also said that stocks of coal would vanish very quickly as soon as the industry revives, as indeed it will.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 14th July, 1958; Vol. 591, c. 836.] I suggest that the hon. Gentleman was either a bad prophet or a bad Parliamentary Secretary to a bad Minister of Fuel and Power. I say that with respect to all Members present. I intend to make a short speech, but, as everyone will understand, it is a dickens of a job making a non-controversial speech in a coal debate when one has come straight from the coal pit. If I were to make a non-controversial speech today, it would be the first that I had made in my life. Let us consider the stocks of coal in my own area, about which I know most. I do not intend to bore the House with figures, but I suggest that the figures relating to my area are very significant, particularly if they are representative of figures for the whole country. In the No. 1 area of the East Midlands Coal Board, which embraces nearly all of my division, last year, in the 43 weeks ended 23rd October, we mined in saleable coal 6,293,798 tons, of which we stocked 124,435 tons. In the 43 weeks ended 21st October, 1959, we mined 6,486,032 tons, of which we stocked 453,014 tons. It will, therefore, be seen that the harder we worked at the coal face the more coal was being stocked on the ground. In consequence, we in the North Derbyshire area, a highly productive and profitable area, were in danger of working ourselves out of a job. This is a very significant point which has not been catered for in the ""Revised Plan for Coal."" I, as a new Member of the House, have no more faith in the new plan for   coal than I had in the old one. I say with all respect that there is as much difference between the figures in the different plans that we have had as there is between Jayne Mansfield's figure and my own. We in the mining industry have not a good deal of faith in the new plan. The reason is that this plan caters for specific targets. In the first ten months of 1958 the output per man-shift was 29·9 cwt. and it has increased to 32·3 cwt. in the corresponding period this year. Therefore, assuming that all things are equal in the industry, that we are breaking even with no profit and no loss, if the targets are fixed, as they inevitably will be once the industry has reorganised itself, we shall be mining the quantity of coal that this country requires with 450,000 men instead of the 750,000 who were employed not very long ago. When the House realises that in 1913, which is within the living memory of many of us in this Chamber, there were 1,300,000 men in the mining industry, and that today we are catering for about 500,000 under a new plan for coal, we can see the social problems which have been and will be created in the mining areas, especially in those areas which have had to bear the brunt of the troubles of the boom and slump economy of the Governments of the day. We have increased our square yards of stocking ground in No. 1 area over the past ten months by 164,289, which means the stocking of coal on the basis of 2 tons per sq. yd. No more can be put on because of the fire hazard which is always present when stocking indigenous fuel. Good agricultural ground has been sterilised by the stocking of coal in No. 1 area. If we multiply that six times in the East Midland division—and I do not know how many times for the rest of the country—we find that this is not only a problem for the Minister of Power but a problem for the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food as well. These are points which have not been brought out in the debate too vividly today. At the moment, 50 per cent. of the coal in my area is mined by mechanisation and we are reaching the output per man-shift which I have already quoted. The aims and objects of the Coal Board,  quite rightly, are that in the not too distant future 70 per cent. of the coal should be mined by mechanisation, which, inevitably, means that the output per manshift will grow and that the cost per ton will be reduced and the No. 1 area will be producing coal and having to stock it and dissipate its profits in the process of stocking. These are the problems which are worrying the men who work in and around the pits in my area. We welcome mechanisation in the industry for the obvious reason that the pick and the shovel are the most soul-destroying instruments ever invented by the mind of man. The sooner we are able to mine every ton of coal without the pick and shovel the better it will be for everyone in the industry. Therefore, along with everyone else, I welcome mechanisation as fast as the Coal Board can give it to us. In this very highly productive No. I area during the past ten months—a very significant period—there have been five transfer schemes. The Coal Board has adopted the Parliamentary word ""transfer"" instead of ""redundancy""—the transfer of some of the men to other pits and some of them on to the dole. About 400 men have been involved in the transfer from one pit to another and in the not too distant future the receiving pits will have reached the point of saturation. Consequently, it will be in the hands of the production people at area and divisional level, and perhaps down to sub-area level, to see that in the event of getting a cross-sectional displacement in a particular seam production by mechanical means will become impossible and production by hand will become economical. The men working in that particular section of the pit, although it had a very high O.M.S. and high profit, will be redundant and have to be transferred elsewhere. The question in the minds of the men in my area is, where will they go when that point of saturation is reached? Will the Coal Board or the local authorities be able to provide housing and accommodation for their families wherever they go and, if not, what is to become of them? It is a paramount problem and one which I hope will be faced very seriously not only by the Coal Board, but by the   local authorities and the Government, in turn, and that some answers will be forthcoming in the not too distant future. Turning to the Bill, I consider, first—and this is where I may slip into die shallow waters of controversy—that the Bill is foolish. I say that with all due respect to every Member in the House. In my opinion, it is foolish for this reason. By lending this money to the Coal Board we are only increasing the heavy financial burden which this industry is having to bear and has had to bear since 1947. I feel that some relief should be given to the industry so that the burden will not be increased and the industry will be able to carry it more easily than it has done in the past. I also consider that the Bill is vindictive in the sense that each time a Bill like this comes before the House, the effect of the publication of the Bill is to turn non-thinking people who have been prejudiced against the miners for some considerable time even more in their disfavour than they have been in the past. We in this industry believe that it is a preconceived plan of hon. Members opposite to bring discredit on this great industry of ours. I have two suggestions to make. Before I do so, however, I should like to say that this industry has borne some very heavy burdens in the past. The Government should take over responsibility from the Coal Board for the money it is still having to pay to the coal owners as compensation for a bankrupt industry and also take over from the Coal Board the burden of the compensation which it is having to pay to the local authorities and property owners under the Coal Mining (Subsidence) Compensation Act. I think that the Government would, in that way, he taking a practical step in helping to revive the industry of which we are all so proud. Another great burden which the industry is having to face and has had to face has not been brought to the notice of the general public. That is the burden brought about by the implementation of the 1954 regulations which I say, as a recently working miner, were long overdue. The pits got into such a state up to 1947 that it was inevitable that new regulations had to be compiled and put on the Statute Book to make the industry more safe for the men working  in it. We in the mining industry welcomed with open arms the implementations of the 1954 regulations, in the preparation of which many of my colleagues, with practical experience, played a great part. The implementation of these regulations places on the shoulders of the Coal Board a very heavy burden indeed. If we get automation or overproduction in any industry the answer is shorter hours for the people employed in it. Some time ago, we were negotiating with the Coal Board in London with a view to having a 7-hour day in the industry. Incidentally, when I started working in the pits—I am only 48 now—we had a 7-hour day, until the powers that be took it away from us in 1926. All we ask for now is the reintroduction of that condition which applied at that particular time, namely, a 7-hour working day. We have another suggestion as an answer to over-production which, again, would involve no breach of faith with the industry. It would, indeed, be no more than repayment of a debt which the nation owes to the miners after the fifteen years during which mining has been the foundation stone of our economy. We suggest that the miners and working men in the industry should have three weeks' holiday with pay. I think that the suggestions I have made have been practical and I thank right hon. and hon. Members for listening so patiently to what has been, perhaps, not a non-controversial speech from a maiden speaker.
