gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first occasion on which I have had the privilege of catching your eye, Mr. Bowles, and the honour of speaking in this House, I crave your indulgence and that of the Committee, too. I welcomed the general tone of the Chancellor's Budget statement because it seemed to indicate that the days of wishful thinking were over and that the Government had decided to face the stern economic facts which confront us. In spite of this general welcome, however, there are three matters in respect of which I should like to make a criticism. The first involves a matter of principle; the  second involves a matter of fairness; the third involves a matter of policy. The matter of principle is involved in the increase of telephone charges, and is this: should a Government Department, which has been granted a monopoly to run a service in the public interest, be allowed to increase the price beyond the cost of production? I believe that a Government Department should not be allowed to do this, and that State monopolies exist for one purpose and one only, to provide a service at the lowest possible cost and with the highest possible degree of efficiency. Any deviation from that is a breach of trust. As I listened to the Chancellor's speech it was not quite clear to me whether he was increasing the cost of the telephone service to raise revenue or to reduce demand. In so far as his purpose was to reduce demand, he seems to be relying on the laws of supply and demand to justify these increases. But those laws operate only in the open market, where, it is true, an increase in price would stimulate an increase in supplies. That, however, does not happen in a closed market where there is a monopoly. What the Chancellor is doing is arbitrarily to fix supply and artificially to limit demand to suit that supply, by raising the price. We have seen the same process at work this year in respect of electricity supply. I do not believe it was ever the intention of the public when these State monopolies were created that they should carry out restrictive practices in this fashion, or try to limit demand by price increases which are bound to fall most heavily on those least able to bear the cost. Nor do I believe that it was ever the intention of the public that State monopolies should be used as an easy way of raising revenue. Indeed, I cannot follow the Chancellor's logic in this matter. Up to date, the right hon. and learned Gentleman has been pressing industry to keep prices and profits as low as possible, although, if prices and profits were high the Treasury would have benefited from increased taxation. Now the right hon. and learned Gentleman suddenly changes his tune and sanctions high prices for the benefit of the Treasury, although these prices are upon a commodity, a service, which is essential to industry, commerce and the ordinary citizen. There is another feature about this increase which I regard as particularly dangerous, and that is the ugly precedent which it creates for other State monopolies and nationalised industries. None of these have made a profit to date but, if they do, will that profit be used to improve the service in the interests of the public or will it be used, as the profit on the telephone service is being used today, to fill the coffers of the Treasury? This is a matter which is causing the public great anxiety. There is nothing new in this technique of establishing a monopoly and using it to extract money from the public. It is following the well-worn road of tyranny and oppression which led Louis XVI and his advisers to the guillotine. I now come to my second point, which involves a matter of fairness in the application of the Death Duties. I shall not conceal from the Committee that I do not like Death Duties. They fall harshly on small family businesses, which often have to sell out to strangers. I agree that this may spread abroad the benefits of ownership, but it means that the personal link is lost, which is something of inestimable value to the workers, as the nationalised officialised industries are now finding out to their cost. I do not believe in them because the family is one of the greatest incentives to output. People work and save for the future of their families. It is often said by hon. Gentlemen opposite, in trying to justify Death Duties, that it is bad for the character of young people to be left something by their parents. What is not recognised is how bad it is for the parents to be prevented by the State from carrying out their natural duty to do the best they can for their children. These are old arguments and I am not at present trying to persuade the Chancellor to reduce the Death Duties. I am only trying to persuade him to alter their incidence in a way which will be fairer. The Chancellor is perfectly right in trying to simplify the Death Duties, but lie is wrong to retain Estate Duty in its present form. What he ought to do is to blend Estate Duty with Legacy and Succession Duties. As the Committee will remember, Estate Duty is a tax on the amount of property which is left, and it varies with the total amount of property. On the other hand, the Legacy and Succession Duty is a tax on the amount of  property which is received, and it varies in accordance with the relationship of the recipient to the donor. Both these principles ought to apply, and Death Duties should be graded according to both the amount and the relationship. For I do not believe that even the most rabid egalitarian would seek to try to place a wife or a child on the same level as a stranger or an institution. Yet this is precisely what the Chancellor is doing with what appears to me to be a thoughtless disregard for the ties of blood and affection. On what amount is the tax to be paid? Should it be paid on the total amount of the property left, as in Estate Duty, or should it be paid on the amount of property received as in the Legacy Duty? It would be far fairer in my opinion for the tax to be levied not on the whole estate but on the amount received from the estate. An example of what I mean will clarify the position. Suppose that there are two brothers, each of whom leaves £100,000. I have taken that large figure because it is easier for the purpose of illustration, but what I have to say applies to anyone who leaves more than £2,000. One of these brothers has an only child. The other has five children. After taxation, the only child gets £50,000 while each of his cousins gets £10,000. So far as the only child is concerned it is perfectly fair. He was left £100,000 and tax is at the rate of 50 per cent., so that he inherits £50,000. But it is not at all fair for his cousins. They were left only £20,000 and on this they had to pay tax of 50 per cent. at the same rate in fact as their wealthy cousin. I cannot see anything fair in this, and I cannot understand why the Chancellor should look at the whole size of the estate which penalises the many and benefits the few, instead of looking at what individuals receive from the estate which would be fair to everyone. There is nothing new in what I am asking the Chancellor of the Exchequer to do. It is a principle which applies in Income Tax and family allowances. The more children there are, the greater the relief. It is only in Death Duties that the few benefit at the expense of the many. I would ask the Chancellor to consider this matter most seriously, because of the hardship and injustice that is being caused. And I ask the Chan-   cellor to amend the Death Duties in such a way as will prevent the present unfair discrimination against those with large families. I now come to the last point, which is more general than the two preceding, which were rather specific. As a matter of policy, is it wise to maintain taxation at the present high rate, particularly that of an indirect character? I do not believe it is wise, and I think some relief is possible by a reduction in the expenses of Government. I see that the Chancellor is shaking his head, but he said that it is impossible to have administrative economy. I remember that when I was in the service of the Crown, in the Forces, I spent money much more lavishly than I would have done if it were my own and I do not think I was unique in that. It is always possible for officials to justify expenditure on the grounds of increased efficiency, but what is not considered nearly enough, is whether this slight extra efficiency is worth the vast increase in cost. I believe that money could also be saved by encouraging people to do more things for themselves. Take national health for example. Many people would be quite willing to employ and pay for their own doctor if they could have their medicine on the State, but the Minister of Health says, ""No, if you want my medicine you will have to have my doctor."" Thus people have been forced into the State service who would rather have stayed out of it, and there has been a corresponding increase in expense to the State. The same thing can be said of education. Many people would be prepared to educate their own children if they were allowed to put against their Income Tax what it costs the State to educate their children for them. I do not believe that the days of self-help are over. It is the duty of the State to encourage people to help themselves, and if the State does not encourage those who can to help themselves, it will not be able to afford social services for those who cannot. All this would serve to reduce taxation. Unless taxation and particularly indirect taxation is reduced, it will not be possible for the Chancellor to stem inflation. People forget when things are expensive that they carry indirect taxation. They demand increased wages because the cost of living is high. The  link between the cost of living and wages was one of the most disastrous ever forged. When the cost of living rises what do people do? They do not think of working harder, but they argue that this increased cost of living automatically justifies an increase in wages whereas, in fact, an increase in wages can only be justified by an increase in output. Is the Chancellor likely to get an increase in output with taxation at its present high level. Already he has had to reduce the duty on beer, because he was getting a diminishing return. What I am afraid of is that, instead of the increase he hopes for, he will actually get a decrease in output. Indications are all in that direction. It may be that output per man-shift has gone up, but what about output per man-year and the increase in absenteeism? Those are not signs of a nation which realises that it is living beyond its means? Last week in a magazine called ""Illustrated"" I read an article on this question of cost of living. The publication is not official, but the figures are probably accurate enough. This article gave an account of the weekly budget of a Jarrow riveter which may possibly explain the limpness and lack of response in the country in spite of the present serious situation in which we find ourselves. This riveter had a weekly income of £6 and of that £6 he spent 27s. a week on beer and tobacco. My point is this—the Chancellor's whole economy depends upon people spending these relatively fantastic sums on relatively worthless luxuries. If the nation wants to get more meat, more houses and better health what it has to do is to smoke and drink more. This topsy-turvy ""Alice-through-the-looking-glass"" way of doing things may be perfectly clear to hon. Gentlemen opposite, but it is not clear to ordinary men. After a while a man gets tired of working his fingers to the bone for a few extra cigarettes. And so far as beer is concerned, he has already failed to respond to what was expected of him. People work for one thing and one thing only, and that is for a reward which is limited, which is personal, where there is a real connection between the effort they put out and the reward they get, and where that reward is clear, immediate and worth while. It sounds all very well to say, as the hon. Member for South   Hammersmith (Mr. W. T. Williams) said in his maiden speech: from each according to his ability, to each according to his need.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th April, 1949; Vol. 463, c. 2537.] But it does not work out in practice. Our social sense is not developed sufficiently. This goes to the root of the whole problem of the welfare State. People as individuals are failing to shoulder the burdens which they have acquired collectively. People, by and large, are only willing to work for themselves and for their families, and are not prepared to work for one another because the system is too complicated and they cannot understand it. This seems to me to be the sad lesson of the last three years. It is a lesson which we must recognise in the Budget if we are to get the best for the nation from the nation. The Chancellor was a brave man to admit in his Budget speech that the emphasis must now be upon economy and not upon expenditure. Is the Chancellor a sufficiently brave man to state the unpalatable corollary of that, which is that the emphasis must no longer be upon collective equality but upon individual opportunity? Unless the Chancellor has the courage to say this and to implement it, the future for this country will be one of bleak sterility and gradual increasing impoverishment.
