gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am indeed grateful to you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for having called me to make my maiden speech in this Chamber. I crave the indulgence of right hon. and hon. Members in prefacing my remarks by paying tribute to my predecessor, Mr. Gilzean, who for some 27 years played a most important part in local and in national politics. He was a quiet, unassuming man who carried out his duties in a similar fashion to his predecessor, the late Mr. William Graham. I sincerely hope and trust that I shall be able to follow in that great tradition. I am sure that the House will join with me in wishing Mr. Gilzean continuation of the good health which he is now enjoying following a major operation. I am in a rather delicate situation in consequence of all my colleagues and friends advising and cautioning me that a  maiden speech at all times should be non-controversial. As a result, my contribution will be somewhat restrained. Already much of what I had intended to say has been said from both of the Front Benches. I want to declare my interest in transport. I understand that it is the right and proper thing to do if one has an interest in the subject under debate. But my interests are primarily to see a comprehensive and integrated transport system instituted for the benefit of the Scottish people, and secondly, and of no less importance, to see that the operatives in the industry are given the very best conditions that the industry can afford. It was something of a shock to me when I examined Cmd. 8538, entitled ""Transport policy."" My immediate reaction was to think what a misnomer is the title, because the only reference to Scotland that I found in that White Paper came in the section dealing with railways, where Scotland was disposed of in six words: Scotland will be a separate area. I wonder if the Secretary of State for Scotland has made himself conversant with the manifold problems of Scottish transportation and whether, when he consults with the Minister of Transport, whom I am glad to see present, some regard will be paid to those problems, because special consideration is an essential in dealing with Scottish transportation. Scottish transport also has scant mention in the Transport Bill. I wonder whether reasons for that can be given in the course of this debate; or was this omission deliberate in order to hide the fact that Scottish road passenger under-takings are running services which are quite unremunerative and therefore would not lend themselves very readily for sale to would-be purchasers, if it is the intention of the Government to sell them also to the highest bidder? I am certain that the House will agree with me that in the event of a breaking up of the ever-expanding services developed over the past four years, it is important to know whether the Government intend to condition the sale of road passenger transport with the proviso that existing services must be maintained. If that is not the intention it means, in effect, that the very lifeline of the farming and crofting communities beyond the Highland line in Scotland will be com-   pletely disintegrated. Those farming and crofting communities are just as entitled to reasonable forms of transportation as their cousins in the built-up areas. I am extremely anxious to know whether those transport facilities, which it is the duty of present undertakings to provide, are to continue. I ask the Minister of Transport or the Secretary of State for Scotland, or the Joint Under-Secretary, to tell the House who will be prepared to run services in the Scottish region which do not pay their way even at this moment. Are the Ministers aware that the unremunerative services are those where the average receipts per vehicle mile are less than the actual operating cost per vehicle mile of the individual company concerned? Are the Ministers aware that approximately 50 per cent. of the routes, as distinct from the services, are unremunerative? Are they aware that some 61 per cent. of the total number of services in Scotland do not pay their way? Perhaps this information could be passed on to the Departments so that they may check the statements which I am making. They are of paramount importance to the future of remote communities in Scotland. The amalgamation of the large omnibus companies in Scotland has made it possible to provide services to the general public. That same public is entitled to know now whether in the near future any disintegration of that Scottish group of omnibuses will mean that some services will stop because they do not make a profit and are therefore not a good selling speculation. I cannot foresee people with an eye to good business—and I have met them over many years as a full-time trade union official—buying up an unprofitable concern just to run it to please the general public. I should like an answer to that point if it is at all possible. The passing of the Road Traffic Act, 1930, was of paramount importance, especially to the operatives in the industry. Sections 19 and 93 of that Act gave to the men some form of guarantee of rates of wages and hours of work. That Act laid the foundation of safety for all road users. At the present moment the operatives have grave misgivings about  their future, and they will assuredly contest any worsening of their conditions in the Scottish region. I have received dozens of resolutions from depots and garages in Scotland protesting strongly against the intentions of Her Majesty's Government because the men visualise a return to cut-throat competition and unroadworthy vehicles through lack of maintenance. I have passed to the Minister of Transport many of those resolutions, and I have no doubt that in due course the Department will send me acknowledgements. I speak with some authority on transport, because I am an ex-operative myself. I find, after checking, that the rolling stock of British Transport is in an excellent condition today compared with the conditions that existed before the passing of the 1947 Act. The days of keeping vehicles together with pieces of rope and wire have passed. There is another factor giving rise to resentment among the operatives in the road haulage and road passenger industry in Scotland, and it is again one of extreme importance. Consultations have reached a stage of finality in setting up consultative committees in nine areas in the Scottish region. A great deal of thought and effort were given by both sides of the industry—the trade unions and the management—with a view to enabling all grades to be represented on those consultative committees, the purpose of which was to discuss a variety of subjects connected with the smooth running of the undertaking. I regret to say that at this moment further progress is impracticable because the industry does not yet know what the Government's intentions are. Neither side is prepared to continue with those discussions until the Government fog has been dispersed. Is there no one on the Government's bus prepared to tell the Minister or whoever is at the wheel that more care should be taken along the road to economic recovery, or is there some truth in the story that is going around that the Prime Minister said to the Minister of Transport, ""Steer with some caution, my friend,"" and the Minister replied to the Prime Minister, ""I thought you were steering""? Perhaps the Government Front Bench are so intoxicated with their own verbosity that no attention is being   paid to who is driving, and they will only know when the crash comes. The success of those joint consultations depends, first of all, on the attitude of mind of the participating parties. The whole basis of transport is service to the community, and the success of those consultations will only be attained by the most delicate application of human principles to all the grades. The prospect of success is being destroyed by the Government's present proposals which are assuredly hindering further progress. Transport is a national asset, upon the efficiency of which all branches of the industrial and social activities of the nation depend. Just when Scottish passenger transport is in a boom year there comes the shock that the Government intend to interfere. Plans for the future are naturally held up. Just when the industry is fulfilling the requirements of the 1947 Act in creating an integrated system, it is called upon to halt. It was no easy task to build up this system out of chaos—because chaos it was prior to the 1947 Act; it was no easy task to persuade some of the local authorities to enable bus companies to fulfil their obligations where road vehicles were required to replace railway passenger services that had been withdrawn. So much to the detriment of the clerical and administrative staffs has been said in the past and is still being said that I regard it as my bounden duty this evening to defend them. Those staffs carried out a most commendable job under great difficulties, and they are entitled to be given some guarantee for the future, because many of them gave up their former employment to come in to the road haulage and road passenger industries to give to the nation the benefit of their very valuable experience. Do the Government intend to throw those people onto the industrial scrap heap? What is to happen to them? The House is entitled to know, and so are the people who are employed in the respective grades. There has already been a tremendous disturbance among all ranks in the service. Disturbed conditions cannot possibly make for efficiency in any kind of industrial undertaking. Why cannot we now set those people's minds at rest by honestly telling them what the future will  bring to them? On the road haulage side in Scotland we also have very virile resentment from the operatives. They are fully aware of past conditions under private enterprise. They know that an Act of Parliament was necessary to force employers to pay decent wages and provide good conditions in the road haulage industry. It was the only industry that required such an enactment to bring about decent wages and protection for the men. Those men also remember very clearly the conditions of their vehicles in those days compared to their excellent condition today. No wonder they are demonstrating. No wonder they are demanding that something should be done to put a stop to the sell-out of the road haulage industry once again to big business. The operatives do a great job of work. The roads in Scotland are no sinecure for men driving heavy loads at all hours of the day and night, even with perfectly running vehicles. They will also be throwing their weight into the combat against the disintegration of their industry—and they claim it is their industry just as much as it was the industry of the previous employers. The Government should reconsider the position with regard to Scotland as a whole. They should have plenty of time to consider public opinion during the next few weeks. I have had the opportunity to meet and have discussions with many people who are closely allied to the Scottish transport industry. No one has a favourable word for the Government's transport plan, because the general opinion is that no plan exists. It has been said that the proposed Bill is on a par with the Home Guard Bill, which required so much amending from this side of the House before it was presentable. This Bill appears to have been compiled hastily, without due care and attention, and Scottish transport affairs, like many other Scottish questions, appear completely to have been overlooked. I notice that we have more Ministers looking after Scottish affairs today than we have ever had before, yet the lifeline of that great little nation is being destroyed for the sake of vested interests. The people of Scotland have indeed been long suffering. They have known adversity and they expect a higher standard of government with each   succeeding Parliament. To my mind that expectation is being covered by a mist to conceal the real intentions of the Government, which is to pander to big business. The intended action of the Government is having serious consideration throughout the country. I do not desire to burden the House further because there are many speakers on both sides who desire to enter this interesting debate and who, I am certain, can make a much greater contribution than I have attempted this afternoon. I only hope and trust that my efforts will at least be carried forward as an appeal to the Government, and I would ask the Ministers to give thought to whether this is the right thing to do. The Government have no mandate from the nation to do this. It is not too late to withdraw this apparently partisan Measure, because transport is a social and not a political necessity in Scotland. It is surely better that the Government should think again before committing a major mistake, for which they will be sorry.
