gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to speak, for the first time in this Committee, with a great deal of trepidation and nervousness, and I must ask hon. Members to bear with me patiently. The fact is not disputed that we in this country are faced with a rising cost of living which has resulted in a most drastic reduction in the purchasing power of the £. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer freely and frankly admitted that yesterday, and it is further evidenced by the ever-growing demands for wage increases. There is one class in the community upon whom the present state of affairs bears most cruelly. The people in that class are the old age pensioners. Yesterday it was learned that the basic rate of pension for men aged 70 and for women aged 65 and over was to be increased from 26s. to 30s. for single persons and from 42s. to 50s. for married couples. I sincerely hope that the Chancellor will give due regard to a Motion tabled by the hon. and gallant Member for Portsmouth, West (Brigadier Clarke) and myself last night, regretting that no increase has been given to the non-contributory pensioner who at the moment gets the ridiculous sum of 10s. a week. I think I am voicing the opinion of the entire Committee, when I say that I welcome wholeheartedly the proposal itself. I welcome wholeheartedly the spirit behind the gesture, but I question whether it will provide an adequate solution of the problems facing the people today. I agree that a larger increase in the basic rate of pension would have been fraught with the gravest financial implications. I should like to make the tentative suggestion that possibly an increase in the rate of national assistance rather than in the basic pension rates might have been an alternative which would have been at once more beneficial to those pensioners who are in need and less burdensome to the community. However these increases are to apply, it is admitted by everyone that it was essential that the rates should be increased. The only question which it is necessary to ask is whether or not the increases will prove adequate. If the present inflationary spiral continues—and so far as one can see there is no prospect  of anything else—within the next few months the real value of the 30s. pension will have diminished to such an extent that the old age pensioners will find themselves back in the same plight in which they were before the increase. I feel that I shall have the whole Committee with me again, when I say that there is only one sure way of making the pound buy more, and that is by a policy of retrenchment designed to cut out waste and extravagance. I applaud the Chancellor's decision, which was a courageous decision, to reduce the cost of the National Health Service, and I also applaud his further assurance that everything possible will be done to secure the utmost economy in Government expenditure. But may I, as a maiden speaker, and without wishing to be accused of being captious or carping, say that one has only to survey the events of recent months to wish that that policy had been carried out earlier? It is apparent to me, and I feel to many hon. Members, that there are many directions in which the need for increased economies must be emphasised. First, there is great need for increased efficiency, coupled with decreased expenditure, in certain of those industries which have been nationalised. As was said by the hon. Member for Harwich (Sir S. Holmes), on the staff of British Railways there are many thousands of redundant workers who could be employed in far more profitable and productive trades. Then there are huge numbers employed in the civil administration of this country. I give all due credit to the Government for the pruning that has taken place already in this direction, but surely far more could be done to release manpower from non-productive employment. There is no point in talking about economy unless it is practised. One can only hope that, in future, the estimates and plans of the Government will bear more relation to the extremely difficult financial position of this country. I feel sure that hon. Members on all sides of the Committee will agree that we must have no more errors involving millions of pounds, such as that which occurred recently in regard to the Festival Gardens, and that, until a policy of retrenchment and economy is pressed to the end, no one can hope to see the people of this country freed from this millstone of taxa-   tion, which is crippling and ruinous in the extreme to every section of the community.
