gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In attempting to make a maiden speech on a Measure such as this, one probably has opportunities which are denied to other hon. Members. I feel that what has happened in this Debate is that we Scottish Members have had an opportunity to consider quite a number of matters connected with Scotland. I understand the tradition of a maiden speech whereby one should not be controversial, but I feel it is rather a disadvantage after hearing the speech made by the hon. Member for South Edinburgh (Sir W. Darling). Hon. Membersopposite have discussed in this Debate, as they have in many other Debates, the question of the Rural Housing Act, 1925, and they have expressed their views about this particular Act being allowed to lapse. So far as housing is concerned, ho question of finance arises. It is not money that is necessary to build agricultural houses. The two things which appear to me to be necessary are materials and labour and, irrespective of any financial provisions, those two things have first of all to be found before houses can be built for agricultural workers. Another point which was made in connection with giving the small town and country joiner a job was that he could be used in repairing houses, but these men already have sufficient work to do at the present time in carrying out the necessary repairs. I believe all hon. Members feel happy about this Bill and welcome it with the reservation, of course, that in Committee something might be done. So far as the water supplies in Scotland and elsewhere are concerned, they have been gradually built up as necessity demanded. It was never a question of any local authority trying to visualise what exactly was essential, but, rather, they met requirements as those requirements came about. I believe that among hon. Members opposite there has been a feeling that in welcoming this Bill they have shown some concern and anxiety in bringing a supply of water into the homes of the people of Scotland. The hon. Member for East Fife (Mr. Henderson Stewart), in making his contribution, referred to the fact that the hon. and gallant Member for Dumfries (Major Macpherson) had intended to take part in this Debate, but that unfortunately   he had neither sufficient time nor the information from his county council to enable him to do so. I wondered if the information that would have come from that county council was to the effect that in the 1929 Labour minority Government the then Secretary of State for Scotland offered that particular county council three-quarters of the cost of a water scheme. That water scheme was turned down, for whatever reasons hon. Members may wish to suppose, but it was probably because it was a Labour Government. I know that Dumfriesshire in particular is very badly off for housing—more so than in any other county in Scotland—but the urgent need at that time was the supply of water. The time came when something had to be done. A water scheme was then brought forward for the county of Dumfries, but unfortunately it was not the Labour minority Government but the so-called National Government—a National Government, of course, composed mostly of Conservatives. They were not so generous, and the subsidy they gave to the local authority was such that the local rates went up far more than they would have done under Tom Johnston's scheme. In connection with the supply of water, the supply of electricity has been mentioned. I regret the county council of Dumfriesshire have not approached the question of the supply of water in the same spirit as they have the supply of electricity. The county council of Dumfriesshire accepted the obligation under the statutory powers to distribute electricity, with the result that they distributed electricity very well to the rural areas. I know very small villages in Dumfriesshire where one can go into a house and find the lady of the house has an electric cooker, an electric iron, a wireless set, even a boiler for boiling the clothes, and all the modern conveniences so far as electricity is concerned, but so far as the watersupply is concerned, she has to go to the village pump. Of course, one has to go and fetch the water in which to boil the clothes. That happens in many other places as well. I lived in Dumfriesshire, and I have had the advantage of electricity. I was thenoffered a new position in Lanarkshire, and my wife said to me, ""We have had all the advantages of electricity in this rural place. Is there electricity in this new home to which you are taking me?""  I said, ""Oh, yes, we must have electricity there because the new home to which I am taking you is two miles from the centre of supply""—the Clyde Valley power supply. I have been told later that if you are ever going to be a wise politician you should never make promises which you are not sure you can fulfil. When I arrived at this particular place I discovered that we had no electricity. We are still burning paraffin lamps, near the centre of the electricity supply. The reason is that the Lanarkshire county council, unfortunately, did not take the necessary statutory powers but handed over the task to private enterprise, and they were not concerned about distributing electricity to rural areas but simply with the profits which could be made. When you bring water into the countryside you must also bring in drainage, and in my experience drainage increases the rates far more than does the water supply. I say this deliberately, because I know of one particular individual who was a so-called Progressive, but was a member of the Conservative Party. He was standing for a local county council, and in his election address he said that he was prepared to bring a drainage scheme to this particular area. After he had taken the trouble to investigate the cost and the local people had discovered that the rates would go up they said they would have nothing to do with it. His election address had already gone out, but he went round to every voter in his little constituency and said that he would withdraw the statement. So well did he stand by his principles of progress that he was prepared to carry out that job. Another thing is that, after coming to this House, I feel that Scots people have a certain amount of tenacity. One has often heard that very little time was devoted to Scottish affairs, but, having heard the discussion this afternoon and having heard Scottish Members in action, I feel that they get quite a good bit across in the time allotted. From the administrative point of view the Bill would have been better debated in Scotland. We look forward to that time. I see an hon. Member shaking his head. If I have not made my meaning clear let me explain that local authorities and Parliament are now controlling and legislating for many different things, and legislation is always entering into the lives of the people from every angle. Some way of bringing   Parliament, one does not want to say up to date, but to give more time to the vital issues is important. We must give the English people a Parliament for themselves as well as asking that we should have a Parliament for Scotland and that there should be a Parliament for Wales. I feel that we ought to do something of that nature. I do not know what time I have taken but I was well advised in my early training as a public speaker that the three golden rules were to stand up, speak up, and to shut up. I finish on that note, and I hope that any contribution I have made will assist the Under-Secretary of State in his deliberations between now and the carrying of the Motion for the Second Reading.
