gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first time I have attempted to address the House, I ask for the usual indulgence given to new hon. Members. I have, naturally, had no experience of procedure in the House, but, following the hon. Member opposite who has just down, I feel that it is necessary to emphasise that there is possibly a different point of view in this House now from that which has existed before, and also a very different task to be done. We are aware that in the past this House existed largely to keep things in this country as they were. There are a different party, a different majority, and a different Government in this House precisely because great changes have to be made. This country cannot continue unless enormous changes are made, and we have to make them for the sake of the people of this country, and for the sake of common decency and humanity we have to make them as rapidly as we possibly can. Something has been said this evening about overwork. I do not find myself overworked in this House; indeed, I have been astonished at the small calls that have been made on my time. I agree that I have had to write a lot of letters, and have to deal with a lot of small details. It seems to me, however, that those things could be dealt with much better by some sort of Committee arrange-  ment which got down to settling these many problems at the base, instead of leaving them to individuals to tinker with and bother Ministers and ministerial Departments about. So far as the Committee system is concerned, as I see it that system must continue to develop so that every hon. Member can be fully employed. I speak as a new Member, and I am told that I shall bow down presently before the old traditions of this House. Frankly, I hope I never shall, and I am putting this on record so that I can look back to it in the future in case I find myself slipping. It seems to me essential that the Members of this House should have special and intimate knowledge on all matters connected with Government, and it would be excellent it there were a Committee of Members associated with every Minister and Ministerial Department so that they would understand right from the base. There should be Committees that can call for evidence, Committees that can interview officials, Committees that can have close association with the various Government Departments. That will be necessary in the very near future. The Ministers of the Crown, faced with the tasks they have before them, cannot possibly deal with these matters adequately; they should have people closely associated with them who can go into various parts of the country, investigate, produce reports, take up various phases of their work, so that there is always somebody in this House who has a close and intimate control of all matters connected with Government. These ideas may be all wrong; possibly in two or three months I shall realise that I am wrong but at present this is how I feel about it and I am encouraged in this because I remember, when I was about 18 years of age and first joined the Socialist movement, that I was told then that my new ideas were all wrong and that I should learn better. Look at the result today after 40 years. Therefore, I am not altogether discouraged because I have new ideas. There is one matter which has been mentioned in the Report, and by the Leader of the House, which I do not think is having the consideration it should have—the question of accommodation. I think we have learned in recent times that the kind of accommodation in which   we carry on any activity is of tremendous importance. We have learned that in order to achieve production in factories, we have to lay out our factories properly. Our office buildings have to be properly and adequately arranged. The same thing applies to this Palace of Westminster. We are told there are difficulties and that there are not enough rooms for the staff and it is indicated that the authorities—whoever they may be—will deal with that problem. I think that is a problem about which we Members should have something to say and, on the face of it, it seems to me obvious that improvements should be made very rapidly. Now I am not going to advocate that the old House of Commons which was destroyed should not be rebuilt I think it should be rebuilt, but not now. We should use our present opportunity to put on that site a prototype or experimental House of Commons which could be built, if we wanted it done, by next August or September, quite easily. We have experience in this country in putting up buildings of a similar character. The size of such a House would be equal to a cinema seating from 1,000 to 1,500 persons, it would have a light steel frame, brick filling, asbestos roofs, and the best possible ventilation, lighting and acoustics that the modern mind can conceive. Those are the things we have to think about, and if we could get this building up, we could have an experimental period during the life of this Parliament to see how that House could be worked and the best way to carry on business. We could try various methods of seating the House, various methods of voting, and put an end to the waste of time and make it possible for every hon. Member comfortably to hear what the Ministers and other speakers were saying. We shall never get Ministers who are worth listening to until we can hear them properly. It is absolutely impossible on many occasions to hear the mumbling back-scratching that goes on between those two Front Benches. While this is happening, I suggest that the whole accommodation of this House should be remodelled. There is plenty of space here to give adequate accommodation for all our needs and, if we employed good modern technicians we could, over the next four or five years, entirely remodel the whole accommodation of this House. At the end of that time we could decide upon the right sort of Parliament  Chamber, we could take the experimental building down, rebuild the old House of Commons and, I suggest, build an entirely new House on the gardens towards, I think, the South end of this building—a real, permanent, new House of Commons. Under those conditions it need not necessarily follow the architectural style of the present House. Hon. Members can go to Manchester and look at the new Manchester library associated with a gothic type building and see what a magnificent result is possible. We could build that House at the end of five years. It would take about four years to build and, at the end of that time, we would have a magnificent new House of Commons, two splendid Committee Rooms—this Chamber and the rebuilt House of Commons—and aremodelled Palace of Westminster. If we could have these rooms adequately planned and properly arranged it would be possible to carry on the procedure and business of this House in a businesslike and effective way, and that is what this Parliament is required to do now and in the future. We shall not be judged by the people of this country on the procedure that we adopt, we shall be judged by results, but we Members of the House of Commons, if we are to produce the right results, must have procedure and buildings which will make that possible.
