gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a good deal of trepidation that I rise at this hour to discuss the employment situation in my constituency, which is the subject of this Adjournment Motion. I am quite sure that the friendliness which has permeated this Chamber in the last few minutes will also be evident when I sit down and that the traditional courtesy and tolerance extended to a maiden speaker will be shown to me. As this is my maiden speech in this historic building, I take this first opportunity of paying tribute to my predecessor, the noble Lord, Lord Blyton, for the 19 years of excellent service which he rendered as Member for the constituency between 1945 and 1964. I am sure that hon. Members on both sides of the House will join me not only in congratulating him on his elevation but also in wishing him well in his new sphere of activity. Nineteen years is a long time, but there is a greater and longer link between my constituency and the Palace of Westminster inasmuch as the tongue of Big Ben was forged in a long since defunct engineering works in Houghton-le-Spring. We in the town are proud of that fact and we proclaim it on occasion almost as loudly as Big Ben itself. It must not be supposed, however, that because of this distinction Houghton-le-Spring lays any claim to be an engineering constituency. Since the days of the Industrial Revolution we have been almost entirely dependent on coalmining for our livelihood and economic wellbeing. This of course applies equally to many other constituencies in the northern region. Coal production and the ancillary operations attached to it account for the fact that the Coal Board now is and for many years has been the largest employer in the constituency. Unfortunately, the trend of recent years towards greater mechanisation and the use of modern techniques has led to a drastic rundown in manpower in the constituency. The situation has been further complicated by  the closure of certain uneconomic pits, and the labour force has been substantially reduced. Here I would quote figures provided by the National Coal Board and for this purpose two of the collieries which I shall include are outside my constituency. They are more or less on the perimeter. I refer to the Lambton ""D"" and Lumley Sixth Pit in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Chester-le-Street (Mr. Pentland). I include them only because a fairly large number of people from Houghton-le-Spring work in those pits. Adding those to the others within my constituency, the situation in 1951 was that we had 15,036 men employed in the mining industry. Thirteen years later, in 1964, the figure was reduced to 10,493, the minus figure of 4,843 representing approximately a 30 per cent. rundown in manpower in the industry. This has meant that, to a very large extent, the men displaced have had to migrate, because of the exigencies of their employment, to coalfields in other parts of the country. If this kind of situation is allowed to continue and to develop further, we shall inevitably run the risk not only of losing able-bodied men but of being faced with the need to maintain an increasingly ageing population. Growing competition from other fuels and the exploration of the North Sea bed, recently begun, for deposits of oil and gas are further factors causing miners not only to look back to the past with a great deal of anxiety but to look forward to the future and the possibility of even further inroads being made into their means of employment. It can truly be said of a large area of my constituency that the economic future of a whole community is at stake. In the urban district of Houghton two collieries have closed during the past few years, and we had news over the weekend of the imminent closure of the Lambton ""D"" Pit. I should make clear that this news came from the miners' lodge and it is not yet official from the point of view of the National Coal Board, although I understand that talks are taking place between the Coal Board and representatives of the miners about the closure of the colliery. Apparently, this decision has been taken—this is the claim made by the the fact that there are large coal deposits National Union of Mineworkers—despite   remaining in the colliery. The union claims, further, that the mechanisation of the colliery could have been handled more efficiently than it has been and that this would have helped the miners not only to be more productive but to be more economic in their daily working. My right hon. Friend the Minister of Power is not in the Chamber, but he has done me the courtesy of apologising for his absence this evening. In view of the statements which have been made by the miners' lodge and the fact that my hon. Friend the Member for Chester-le-Street and I are making joint representations to the Chairman of the National Coal Board on the matter, I ask my right hon. Friend to be good enough to use his good offices to intervene and, at least, delay the closure of the colliery until further investigations have been made. Naturally, my hon. Friend the Member for Chester-le-Street shares my concern at the decision which we understand has been taken. I suggest to my right hon. Friend also that economic planning in this area would be rendered much easier if he were to announced a declared and jointly agreed production target for the coal industry as a whole, the resulting information being conveyed at divisional level so that the miners would be fully acquainted with the facts and would know the target at which they were aiming. I am sure that everyone would be much happier with that knowledge behind them. I am sure that my right hon. Friend will be bound to remember, at the same time, the absolute necessity for a co-ordinated policy for the fuel and power industries. During this period of progressive and drastic rundown in manpower to which I referred, we had the closure of the Lambton brickworks which used to offer a fair amount of employment in the constituency and, more recently, there have been the Sunderland-Durham railway closures which also are the subject of correspondence between the Minister of Transport and myself. The background already existing was one of persistently high unemployment in Houghton-le-Spring. In the Houghton employment exchange area alone, the consistently high level of 4 per cent, has been recorded for quite a long time, being made up at present of 529 men, 62 boys, 126 women and 40 girls. What are the alternatives for these people? I know something of the frustration and misery involved, having been unemployed on one or two occasions, particularly as a boy leaving school. I ask the House to think for a moment of the frustration and misery which people feel on being unable to find work, especially the school-leaver who faces the heartbreaking business of looking for his first job in an increasingly intensive labour market. The alternative, obviously, is to diversify and introduce more industry into a constituency of this sort. An opportunity has existed during the last 13 years. It ought to be made very clear that in the urban district of Houghton there is an industrial site within the ownership of the Board of Trade comprising 27 acres, and in 1948 my predecessor had a letter from the Minister of Labour and National Service indicating that the area of Houghton-le-Spring was too heavily committed to heavy industry, that it was necessary to introduce lighter industries and that the estate would he used for that purpose. It is true that for two or three years up to 1951 new factories were established but, unfortunately, since 1951 only one entirely new factory has been provided on the estate, although I admit that there have been extensions to the buildings which were in existence. The situation now is that the five firms established there provide employment for 261 men only and 740 women. I am very pleased to learn, as my constituents are, of what appears to be a new note of urgency introduced by the Board of Trade by designating an advance factory for this site, but it is not enough. There still remain 11½ acres of undeveloped land on the same site and the urban district council assures me that, if necessary, it would be relatively easy to acquire additional land for the purpose of extending the site if industry is available to go there. In these circumstances, I sincerely trust that my right hon. Friend at the Board of Trade will do everything possible to divert more new industry to the area, with emphasis on the employment of men. While it is obviously necessary to provide jobs for women, it is much more important to take the men, or as many of   them as possible, from the unemployment register. I turn to that part of my constituency which comprises the urban district of Seaham. Briefly, but nevertheless proudly, I would refer to the last three Parliamentary representatives who served the old Seaham Division prior to its incorporation into the Houghton-le-Spring constituency. The were, in order of seniority, Sidney Webb, Ramsay Macdonald and my right hon. Friend the Member for Easington (Mr. Shinwell), who took the Easington constituency after the Seaham one was merged. I am sure it will be agreed that this is a most distinguished line of succession. In Seaham the situation in the mining industry is a good deal better than elsewhere in the constituency. Despite this greater stability, there has been a diminution of the labour force at the three collieries of 779 in the period 1951 to 1964. Those collieries are Dawdon, Seaham and Vane Tempest. But for the absorption of men from redundant collieries, the situation would have been considerably worse than it is at present. In Seaham there is a steady unemployment rate of over 3 per cent., embracing 311 men and boys of the gross total of 501 on the register. Virtually no new industry has been introduced into the Seaham area for several years, although 30½ acres of land are included in the town map for industrial development. This total comprises five sites within the area, including one of eight acres owned by the Board of Trade. More diversification of industry is required in Seaham. The town is on the North East Coast and it is therefore not surprising that, many years ago, a dock was established primarily for shipping coal from collieries in the vicinity. The shipment of coal continues to be the main function of the Seaham Harbour Dock Company but, from the employment point of view, it is regrettable that its capacity to handle 3 million tons of coal a year is grossly under-used. Before 1939 it was carrying traffic averaging 2 million to 2½ million tons per annum. The post-war peak for coal freight was in 1951 when just under 2 million tons was transported, including 104 million tons for export, but less than 1½ million tons was handled in 1964 and  of this total only 11,262 tons was for the export market. Two of the three local collieries to which I have referred stand literally on the seashore. Last week they were responsible for 63,381 tons, giving an estimated output of more than 3 million tons a year. Based on the same output statistics, the added production of the Hawthorn group of mines, which is in close proximity to the dock, and which I understand was to be serviced, when built a few years ago, by the dock, would give approximately 5½ million tons per annum gross. Potentially, this dock could and should be carrying more coal freight. A good deal of the local production is, however, transported by rail for shipment at Sunderland, about four or five miles along the coast. This adds considerably to the cost of the product. Perhaps the Minister of Power will be good enough to take up this matter with the N.C.B. and, if necessary, the Minister of Transport. The Sunderland rural district, which is the third local government area within my constituency, is again most heavily dependent economically on coal mining but, because of overlapping Ministry of Labour exchange areas, I regret that I am not able to quote unemployment figures. However, as the majority of the people in this area are served by the Sunderland exchange—where there is also a persistently high rate of well over 4 per cent. unemployed—it is safe to assume that the rate in the Sunderland rural district area is at least equivalent. This, when coupled with the fact that, during the last thirteen years, 1,717 fewer men have been employed at the three collieries in the area—equivalent to a wastage of 32 per cent. in man-power and despite outside recruitment from other collieries—gives rise to further considerable concern. Under the county development plan, 35½ acres of land at Offerton, adjacent to the Sunderland Borough boundary—I understand that Sunderland Corporation has a further area of land which could be added to make one large parcel—have been allocated for industrial development without any apparent attempt being made to provide urgently needed new industries. I have endeavoured, in the short time at my disposal, to convey to the House   employment problems facing the constituency of Houghton-le-Spring. I am deeply conscious of the manifold difficulties facing the Government in their attempt to find a reasonable solution. Yet I feel sure that they have listened to me with a sympathetic and understanding ear and I look forward optimistically to success attending any efforts they may be able to make on behalf of my constituents.
