gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I should first like to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me to make my maiden speech on such an important   subject. I was just about to say that I was pleased that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was here, but I see that he has left the Chamber. I was hoping that he would have remained behind, because I would very much have liked him to hear at first hand of the effect of his cuts in the welfare services upon ordinary working folk, such as those who live in my constituency. I pay a tribute to my predecessor who sat for Bradford, South, George Craddock. I am sure that many hon. Members on both sides of the House knew him well and are aware of the excellent service that he gave to this House as well as to his constituents. I have listened with a great deal of attention to the speeches that have been made today, and I was struck by a couple of speeches which were made by hon. Members opposite who have now left the Chamber. The inference to be drawn from those speeches seems to be that the baling out of firms and industries was necessary because of high taxation or because of the activities of a very large trade union. I should like to make it clear that there are many reasons why firms and industries have had to be baled out over the years. Frequently it has been because of bad and inefficient management and the fact that not enough of the profits have been ploughed back into the industries to buy more machinery and bring them up to date. That is by the way, but I felt that it ought to be said. The people of Bradford are hard working. For many years they have given good and loyal service to the woollen textile industry, which is the main industry of Bradford and the surrounding area of the West Riding. My constituents have contributed towards the fine records of exports in the woollen textile industry. These are vital exports, and this has been done despite the intense competition from abroad and despite the fact that Japan and Italy, by devious means, manage to subsidise their exports of woollen textiles. The labour relations in the woollen textile industry in Bradford are excellent. Disputes and strikes are unknown—and they are well organised in their trade unions. Yet, despite the loyalty of these people, it is a low-paid industry. In fact, Bradford is entirely a low-wage area. It is because my constituents are mainly in the  low income brackets that the cuts announced by the Chancellor will fall so heavily upon them. It is, indeed, ironic that these people, who have been so loyal and who have worked so hard, should have to suffer so much. The people of Bradford today are very worried because of the contractions in woollen textiles and because of the mergers in engineering, bringing in their wake redundancy with consequent unemployment and a complete lack of alternative work. New industry is urgently required if we are to save this area from becoming an area of depression, so common in the past under the Tory rule of the 1930s and before. The policy outlined by the Chancellor is, to put it mildly, an aggravation of our problem, and little hope can be derived from Government spokesmen who have repeatedly declared their intention to help only where profit is assured. I appreciate that right hon. and hon. Members opposite find it impossible to understand the human suffering of the housewife trying to succour her family when he man is unemployed. Hon. Members opposite have never experienced it. They cannot understand the loss of human dignity of a man who must go to the labour exchange for his money each week, a man who has been denied the right to work. Hon. Members opposite who have never struggled in this way cannot understand the effect on such people of the abolition of free school milk and the vast increase in prices of school meals. Tory philosophy changes but little—perhaps only in its method of presentation. It tends to kid a bit more. Still it transfers the cost from those with ability to pay to those who simply cannot afford to pay. For a married man with two children earning £20 a week—I wrote this before the ""argie-bargie"" that we had earlier today—6d. off income tax gives a gain of about 1s. a week. I see no reason to change that belief as a result of the Chancellor's statement. The Chancellor said that there would be some kind of aid to persons with earnings of less than £1,000 a year. A man with two children earning £20 a week receives slightly over £1,000 a year. This income tax reduction means nothing to him. It will be more than absorbed by the extra cost of school meals for one of his children. Someone must go short in a   workingclass family if children are to have proper sustenance; alternatively, the children must do without proper nourishment and make do perhaps with sandwiches or chips, or something like that. Hon. Members opposite cannot understand this. This is the price that low wage groups, like so many thousands in my constituency, will have to pay for the Tory policies of taking from the poorest to give to the richest. Milk is a vital food—so vital to the nation's children that the abolition of free school milk is criminal, particularly for people in areas like Bradford. This will not be made up by the additional private purchase of milk. The children just will not get the milk. Masses of my constituents cannot afford to buy it. To get one's tax concessions one must rob the children of their milk. This is no laughing matter—certainly not to one like myself who has in his constituency so many people in the condition that I have described. The General Election campaign is still very fresh in my mind, if it is not fresh in the minds of hon. Members opposite. I still remember the statements which were made by hon. Members opposite, in particular the statement by the Prime Minister that prices must be reduced, not ""some time, never"", but immediately. These words are fresh in my mind. I wish that they were as fresh in the mind of the electorate. If we on this side had made such statements to the electorate, telling them that we should reduce prices immediately, and prices had gone on rising for us as they have for the Government since 18th June, the Press would not have allowed the electorate to forget it. The newspapers would not have played it down for us as they have played it down for the party opposite. The Press is Tory-owned and Tory-controlled, but no amount of silent Press and Government gimmicks will cover up the fact that more and more is being paid by the housewife. The immediate cuts are not in prices but in social welfare and social services. The housewives of Britain are in for an even tougher time when the new system of agricultural support outlined by the Chancellor comes into effect, because more and more will have to be paid for essential foods. So much for the election stunt of immediate lower prices. All this hardship and the struggle for existence will hit hardest the low-paid of Bradford and of Britain. For many years, I have battled for the low-paid, for until entering this place I was an officer of a trade union catering for some of the lowest-paid workers in this country. I am honoured to continue to do battle now for low-paid people everywhere, and for those in my constituency in particular. I hope that the day is not far distant when, despite the power of the Tory-inspired monopolistic mass media, the electors will see through the false promises of the party opposite, sweep this Government of monopoly big business from power, and return once again a Government pledged to reverse the policies which they have pursued.
