gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As this is the first time that I have tried to catch your eye since I was sent to this place, Mr. Speaker, may I thank you and all the Officers of the Palace of Westminster for the great courtesy and assistance shown to me in a few short weeks? The people of the constituency of Gravesend have sent me here. In the tourist books Gravesend is best known as the burial place of Princess Pocahontas. It is a big parliamentary seat with 90,000 electors. It covers the banks of the River Thames and part of the Medway borough and stretches out to the Hoo peninsula. The constituency is known as a microcosm of the whole of the United Kingdom. We have heavy and light industry, farming, a refinery, and commuters—in fact, almost everything. Gravesend used to be called a marginal seat. I hope that in my work here I can prove that that situation has changed. However, I have a great target ahead of me, because since the war the seat has been held for 21 years by a Labour Member and for 13 years by a   Conservative. My predecessors have made their mark in various ways. Sir Richard Acland was well-known for his individual and determined views, as was Sir Peter Kirk, who died so tragically recently. Albert Murray, who is now Lord Murray, and Roger White also represented the people of Gravesend. My immediate predecessor was Mr. John Ovenden, whose views I can in no way share but who was most assiduous in looking after the individual needs of his constituents. I thank him for the attention that he paid them and I know that I have a great task ahead. We have a large group of pensioners in Gravesend. As I am only in my fiftieth year, perhaps I should explain my personal interest. It goes back 15 years, when I found myself, for the benefit of a television programme, living in a pensioner's room in a Brixton basement on the then basic old-age pension of £2. 17s. 6d a week. I learnt a great deal. I should have bought cracked eggs at more reasonable prices and I should have marketed more carefully. As a result of my lack of knowledge I lost a great deal of weight. I then faced Members of Parliament from all parties to ask them what could be done about this sort of pensioner. The right hon. Member for Salford, West (Mr. Orme) spoke of a large section of pensioners in this country—the very section of which I had experience those years ago—who had no other means or very little. However, there are others who receive old-age pensions, and if taxation on what has been called unearned income—now better known as savings income—could be altered we could have a great deal of money and perhaps help those really unfortunate pensioners who have nothing else. I sense that I may be digressing a little from the main point of the debate, Mr. Speaker. The £10 bonus, when first introduced by a Conservative Government, seemed to me to be almost an admission that we were not doing enough for the pensioners with no other form of income. It was a sop to the sentimental view that I am afraid the media and others often take in discussing this emotive problem. We must look further than £10 bonuses and free television licences. I suppose  that the ultimate cure is some form of tax credits, so that those really in need can be properly looked after. From my personal experience I do not believe that this is happening now. I thank you for your indulgence, Mr. Speaker.
