gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is a happy tradition of this House that on the occasion of his maiden speech a new Member should refer to both his predecessor and his constituency. It is a particular pleasure for me to refer to Mr. David Marquand, who represented Ashfield for 11 years. He was a most conscientious Member on behalf of his constituents. He is of course also a distinguished journalist and biographer, and his recently published biography of the Labour Prime Minister Ramsay Mac-Donald was received with universal acclaim, I think, by the critics. Now that he has been appointed Special Adviser to the President of the European Commission, I am sure that the House will wish him well in his new capacity. My constituency of Ashfield is part of the industrial heartland of this country. Forty per cent. of the workers there are skilled workers. Six per cent. of the national output of coal is produced at Ash-field's nine pits. The engineering factories and the hosiery factories also contribute disproportionately in total to the national wealth. All that the people of Ashfield ask is that in return for their hard work they should receive fair rewards and be allowed to keep a fair proportion of those rewards. It is a privilege for me to represent those people. Unemployment affects Ashfield in the same way as it affects the rest of the United Kingdom. I am pleased to say that it is rather less affected than some other areas. Unemployment is a social evil. Its eradication should be high on the agenda of all Governments. Unemployment among the young is especially tragic because for young people it can become more than a temporary setback. Unemployment can condition their whole way of life and attitude to work. The House will be familiar with the statistics on youth unemployment. They are well known, and my right hon. Friend the Member for Lowestoft (Mr. Prior) referred to them. The most significant is that which refers to males under the age of 19. In 1971 the rate of unemployment was 6·5 per cent. By 1976 it had risen to the staggering level of 21·9 per cent. As hon. Members will know, this is the last week of the school term. In Nottinghamshire 15,000 boys and girls will be leaving school. At the end of this week 4,500 of them will still be looking for jobs. In Ashfield 1,300 girls and boys will be leaving school. At the end of the week 500 will still be looking for jobs. I hope that local employers will do all that they can to help, especially those connected with industries that tend to be less popular. I hope that they will advise schoolchildren of the opportunities available through the media, including local radio stations. Unemployment among young people is now accepted as being both cyclical and structural in nature. I was pleased to hear the Secretary of State say that he recognised that there was a structural element to youth unemployment. Of  course the cyclical nature of unemployment has a disproportionate effect upon unemployment among young people. It follows that when the cycle moves forward their position is also alleviated disproportionately. Clearly, whether this occurs in the future depends upon the Government's economic and industrial strategy. I do not propose to enter into that argument, because it might be controversial. The Government now accept the structural element in unemployment among young people. Therefore, economic recovery by itself will be insufficient to resolve the problem. The Holland Committee points out in its projections, including the most optimistic, that there will still be 100,000 unemployed young people in 1981. Some type of comprehensive approach to the problem, along the lines of the report, is required. There are three principles that are important in that context. The first—and the report recognises this—is that there should be a common level of remuneration among young people who take part in the various schemes. The report fixes that level at £18 a week but the payment should not be made more attractive than going to work. There is a danger in that. On the other side of the coin is the interface with further and higher education. That needs to be examined so that there is no incentive for young people to go into the scheme rather than stay on in full-time education. There should be no interference with the labour market. That is more easily said than done. So long as the scheme is not comprehensive and does not embrace all young people who are out of work—and the report does not propose that—interference will be kept to a minimum. Those responsible for the management of the schemes must keep that in mind at all times. The third principle is that the opportunities made available to young people under the schemes must be both relevant and interesting to the young people concerned. The report suggests that there should be participation by young people in the management of any scheme. Until three weeks ago I was Treasurer of the British Youth Council. That council produced a report written mainly by young people. The report of the council says that young people are often absent   from the various processes of decision-making bodies which make decisions about their livelihoods and their future. There is no national forum in which young people can get together to put forward their views. The British Youth Council is the closest body to such a forum. That third principle is most important. Young people should be allowed to have their say. I was particularly pleased that the Secretary of State is to take into account the views of the council. No wonder young people feel alienated It is no surprise that disproportionate support for the National Front comes from the young. Fascism feeds on high unemployment and high inflation. It is not enough to hope that the National Front will go away. Something more positive must be done. We must have a lead from the top. Young people must be reassured that solutions exist. They want confirmation that jobs can be found. More than anything, they want a new idealism and sense of purpose that will restore their confidence and give them hope.
