gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech in this debate, because finance, taxation and economics are still at the centre of our national affairs. The fact that we are no longer quite so obsessed with the subject as we might have been 10 or 20 years ago seems to be some index of our growing strength in those respects. Nevertheless, I rise with some diffidence in place of my predecessor, Reg Prentice, who served the House for exactly 30 years. Of course, not all that time was spent representing my constituency of Daventry and, indeed, only the last 10 years were spent in the interests of my party. He was therefore bound to be something of a controversial figure in the House. I can speak as one of Reg Prentice's former constituents. Indeed, I was proud to be his constituency chairman for the first four years of his time at Daventry. I greatly appreciated his qualities of courage and forthrightness, his personal kindness to all he met and his wise advice to me. He made a considerable contribution to our affairs. As time and the generous traditions of the House soften any asperity, I hope that all hon. Members will join in wishing Reg Prentice a long and happy retirement. I am quite sure that it will be a lively one. The parliamentary history of my constituency is one of personalities. I noted with some surprise during the campaign that Mr. Speaker Fitzroy, who died within a few months of my birth, is still well remembered. Remarkably, looking further back, the Cartwright family, from my home village of Aynho, held the seat continuously for almost a century from 1797 to 1881. Our lovely village of Aynho, with its unique and distinctive apricot trees, lies at the southern tip of my constituency. I can set course north from there and travel more than 40 miles in a straight line, although there is hardly a straight road on which to do so. Many hon. Members may be familiar with the other axis, that from south-east to north-west, because as they return to their constituencies they will use either the M1 or the Roman-built alternative, the A5, Watling street. If they are lucky enough to avoid one of our too-frequent traffic jams, they may pass quickly across us from the edge of south-east England, at Milton Keynes to the gates of the west midlands, at Rugby. However, they might do a great deal better to linger in one of our three attractive and flourishing towns, Daventry, Brackley and Towcester, or in our large and small villages, or in our historic, unspoilt and rather under-visited countryside. We can boast the national waterways museum at Stoke Bruerne and the battlefield of the decisive parliamentary victory at Naseby. Our strategic position at the crossroads of England was recognised by the establishment of the national cavalry barracks at Weedon two centuries ago.  Today that means that half the nation wants to come and live among us, and the other half wants to drive through us. While I share with other hon. Members the concerns expressed during the campaign nationally, for example about education and pensions, I shall in future want to lay special emphasis on the issues of planning, traffic and bypasses. I am indeed fortunate to represent such a beautiful and flourishing constituency and, in no selfish sense, we wish to keep it that way. I am pleased to be involved in today's debate on the Finance Bill, not least because my prior involvement in politics marked a degree of alternation between an interest in finance and taxation on the one hand, and in agriculture on the other. On the latter point, our present expenditure on the common agricultural policy constitutes a massive financial problem, without solving the equal and major problem of farm incomes. Fresh thinking has been needed and is now beginning to come forward. I should like to pay special tribute to the work of my right hon. Friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale (Mr. Jopling), whom I had the privilege of serving as his special adviser in Whitehall, for his dramatic initiatives in rural policy and his contribution to the new developments to encourage conservation, leisure and the rural economy. They will cost money, but will cost far less than unreformed surplus production. Today's debate and this Finance Bill are a further stage in giving all our people, wherever they live, a stake in the nation's growing prosperity. I was lucky to play a small part in formulating the Conservative party's thinking on stimulating wider share ownership when we were in opposition during the 1970s. It is gratifying to see the next stage of that process developing. I welcome the emphasis in the Bill on profit-linked pay, because only profits pay for pay. I welcome also the new flexibility in personal pension schemes. All these and the related measures that are already in place are directed towards giving ordinary people greater opportunity and choice and a sense of belonging, and are economically and socially beneficial. Like many of my hon. Friends, I have heard in recent days some eloquent speeches from Opposition Members about the problems facing their constituents. I do not for a moment denigrate Labour Members. but I note that much of their debate is cast in terms of what is happening to those people. There are two false solutions that we should avoid. The first is the belief that massive infusions of public money will, on their own, solve the problem. The second is any recourse to the special and damaging type of private enterprise response, that of rioting on the streets. Neither of those solutions is acceptable. It is far better to do as I believe the Government will do and to blend the use of public money with the necessary contribution from the private sector, such as investment in better training and re-skilling, and a readiness to enlighten and stimulate enterprise and those who want to work to better themselves. I should like to hear rather less about what is happening to the inner cities and their inhabitants, and rather more about what is happening in them and coming from them, and the contribution that they can make. My constituency of Daventry stands as a place of refreshment for the city dweller, as well as being a powerhouse of agricultural production and varied and lively economic activity. In today's world we face greater   integration, faster communication and a one-world economy. In today's economic and social conditions we can no longer say—if we ever could—that any man is an island. No constituency, even one as fortunate as mine, is an island. Indeed, no island state is an island. No community of nation states, however powerful, is an island. We sink or swim together and we all have a proper interest in one another. In supporting the thinking behind the Bill, at the election and today, the constituency of Daventry and its Member stand ready to play their part and to make their contribution to building a united nation.
