gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for calling me to speak for the first time on this occasion. Before turning to the subject of the debate, I should like to pay a tribute to my predecessor. I never had the good fortune to know Martin Maddan, but I have heard much about him, both in the constituency and from hon. Members. From all I have heard, I now know that he showed in his life and in his work in the constituency his Christian belief in service to one's neighbours. He also served the cause of Europe well, particularly by his office as Joint-Treasurer of the European Movement. It is a tradition of these occasions to avoid controversy. I believe that it was an hon. Member of Irish birth who said this placed him in an impossible position and his speech would, therefore, be extremely brief. This is also a debate in which it is difficult to avoid controversy. I trust that hon. Members will grant me the usual courtesy if I do occasionally stray across the bounds of what might be considered controversial or non-controversial. I hope that analysis and description may be admitted as being non-controversial, and I shall try to confine myself to those activities. I find that I am the first Member to be elected for the first time by the borough constituency of Hove. It is, therefore, appropriate that I should say a few words in description of my constituency, which comprises the borough of Hove and the urban district of Portslade, shortly to be united as the district of Hove. Recent events have caused a lot to be written and said about my constituency,  and I shall do no more than say that Portslade is by far the older of the two communities, being mentioned in the Domesday Book, whereas the fame and the very existence of Hove dates from the nineteenth century. My constituency does not contain any mines, heavy industry or major shopping or office centres. It is mainly residential, with some light industry, a few shops and some offices. It is bounded by the Channel in the south and the Downs in the north. But these are physical characteristics and are not the important part of any description of the place, for that must be about the people who live there. The 1971 census shows a population of 91,222. Of that population 30,686, or nearly exactly one in three, were over the age of 60. By national standards of persons per room, Hove households are not crowded. Some 12,726, or exactly one-third of all the households, are single-person households. Therefore, there are many elderly people in my constituency and a large proportion of them live alone. Numerous voices more eloquent than mine have on many occasions described the difficulties and the problems of the elderly, and especially the elderly living alone. The House does not need me to remind it why they do not find it easy to keep warm, to stand in queues or to contend with rapidly rising prices. I am, however, sure that hon. Members will understand why, when I speak today, I have the needs of the elderly particularly in mind. There would seem to be general agreement that the immediate situation is difficult, that the future is uncertain, that some reduction in our level of prosperity is in the short term inevitable and that there is a current problem not of insufficient demand but rather of inadequate output. These are the lowest common denominators of current economic analysis, but on this occasion it is perhaps wiser for me to say no more on the immediate situation but rather to consider the longer-term economic objectives. I remain an unrepentant believer in the merits of growth. It is difficult enough in times of increasing prosperity to ensure that a generous share of that increase is given to the retired. If the economy stagnates, there is a grave risk that the spending power and the pensions will really decline. Therefore, I believe that it is right,   even at this moment, to give thought, as the Prime Minister did, to the longer-term objective, which is to continue to increase the country's prosperity. For this reason I welcome the action that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has taken to control consumer credit. It will have an immediate effect, and, equally, the controls can, when the situation allows, be quickly dismantled. They have an immediate and direct effect on demand and also on the demand for imports. I regret, however, that measures have not been taken in respect of interest on bank overdrafts. Bearing in mind that longer-term objective, it must surely be of the highest priority to ensure that sufficient credit is available for productive investment. The disallowing for taxation of interest on overdrafts could ensure that bank credit is used to the greatest advantage, and it would also be fairer as between different classes of taxpayer. I also welcome the measures it is proposed should be included in the 1974 Finance Bill to tax development gains and unrealised capital gains of property development companies—and I refer to property development companies because, as my right hon. Friend pointed out, property speculators are treated differently and far more severely. These measures will bring the taxation treatment of property development on to a more equitable basis in relation to the taxation treatment of other economic activities while avoiding the trap which many hon. Members opposite fall into of discouraging development. It is worth remembering that the increase in value of existing commercial property, whether occupied or not, arises from the demand for that type of property in relation to supply. If the property increases in value very sharply, that in itself is evidence that the supply of that type of property is inadequate to meet the demand. The right way to reduce the rise in property values, and indeed, perhaps, as has happened in New York, to obtain an absolute reduction in property values in some areas, is to increase the supply of the relevant type of property. In this connection, I hope that my right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment will give further consideration  to introducing measures, in addition to those included in the Local Government Act, for ensuring that, at a time when necessarily the supply of new buildings will be reduced, property, particularly residential property, is not unreasonably kept out of use. Again bearing in mind the longer-term objective of increasing the prosperity of the country, I welcome the decision not to increase direct personal taxation. An increase in this area would be slow-acting, not easily or quickly reversed. But, above all, it would be a disincentive to effort. Hard work and the sort of economic activity which can create prosperity for all would be discouraged by increases in direct personal taxation, and it is, after all, the efforts of those who are economically active which must pay for both the young and the elderly. I hope that it may not be considered controversial to suggest that the prosperity of the society in which each of us lives is part of our own individual prosperity. To that extent, to be unselfish is in our own self-interest. At this difficult moment in our affairs, to look beyond our immediate self-interest is to help not just our country but also, and especially, our senior citizens. We all learn as children that we cannot always have everything that we want and that give and take is a necessary part of life. It is the elderly who suffer most if we forget this lesson and ignore the mutual interdependence that is essential to the well-being of any society. At this time, there is talk of survival. ""Survival"" is not really the appropriate word in the context of maintaining this or that level of economic activity. But it is survival, not economic but personal, which is the daily concern of many of my constituents. That is why I would like on this occasion to ask those who are seeking for themselves a larger share of the wealth of the nation to give thought to the needs of our senior citizens. There are many who believe quite sincerely that they have a claim for special treatment. The claim of the elderly to such treatment is very strong indeed. At a time of crisis, we should first ensure that they are not made worse off in relation to other groups and that they have no extra burdens and difficulties to bear. Yet if the present claims for special treatment were to be met, inevitably the elderly would be worse off, and that is why I say that the cost to the community of meeting those claims is far too high. We must continue to search for ways by which our economic life can be regulated so that those who are not strong enough to join in the fight are not the first to suffer, while at the same time ensuring that, when external circumstances allow, we can once again continue to increase our national prosperity so that all sections of the community can benefit.
