gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
Most newcomers to this House are struck by the overwhelming sense of continuity and custom which they find here. In making my maiden speech, I certainly do not wish to deviate from this sense. I gather that there are three conventions which a maiden speaker should follow; he should refer favourably to his predecessor, he should speak briefly about his constituency and he should try to be uncontroversial. The first two are, in my case, extremely easy. I will try as far as I can to be uncontroversial, though it is difficult to speak on the topic of comprehensive education without occasionally overstepping the mark. Sir Spencer Summers, my predecessor, is a man whom it is impossible not to like and respect. His rectitude was and is matched by his kindliness, as I have had considerable occasion in the last year to find out. I gather that in the House of Commons he was a very assiduous and penetrating member of the Estimates Committee, and I am sure that he was a wise friend and adviser to many people. He is well known for his work for the Outward Bound movement, and in my constituency, as hon. Members will know, he has always been a deeply respected figure. In short, he is a man who has done the State considerable service. As to my constituency, Aylesbury, the best comment I can make is that I would change it for no other. It has extraordinary variety. It is a most attractive place, encompassed by beautiful countryside, which, alas, is threatened by reason of a possible third London airport there.   It covers industry and farming, and has what is commonly called a commuter belt, though it is one of exceptional charm. All in all, I am extremely lucky to be able to represent it. One of the virtues of electioneering is that it brings one into a degree of contact with the people, which may take a long time to do in any other way. Something that was certainly borne in on me as I tried to meet the people in the last few weeks was the rugged independence of mind and the genuine character of my constituents. Time and again I was struck by the rather idiosyncratic frame of mind of some of them. I remember canvassing one old gentlemen who said that he would vote Labour because he wanted to see 2 million unemployed. He was sure that Labour was the party to achieve that. It was a curious point of view. I spoke to an old lady who said that while she would very much like to vote for me, she had promised her hubsand before he died that she would always vote Labour. I did not try to dissuade her. Another character of my constituency which stands out is its quite exceptional political tradition. In the Market Square of Aylesbury there are two prominent statues, one of John Hampden and one of Benjamin Disraeli. I can imagine no two politicians I would rather see adorning this place. Hampden stands for freedom. I have always admired him, perhaps because of Macaulay's remark about a man who spent all summer in the field and all winter in the study. Disraeli is respected by all Conservatives for his shrewdness and unique understanding of England. May I quote from an election address which Disraeli gave to the electors of Buckinghamshire about 120 years ago. He said: The County of Buckingham has always taken a lead in the political fortunes of this country. The Parliamentary Constitution of England was born in the bosom of the Chiltern Hills; as to this day our Parliamentary career is terminated among its Hundreds. The Parliamentary Constitution of England was established when Mr. Hampden rode up to Westminster surrounded by his neighbours. Buckinghamshire did that for England. It has done more. It gave us the British Constitution in the 17th century, and it created the British Empire in the 18th. All the great  statesmen of that century were born, or bred, or lived in this county"". He went on to speak of achievements in the 19th century and concluded: Now let the men of the North, who thought they were to govern England""— I assume he had in mind the present Leader of the Opposition— bring a political degree equal to that of the County of Buckingham. Clearly, I have something to live up to. I come to the topic of the debate, education, and I welcome the emphasis in the Gracious Speech on primary schools. I had the good fortune to be a member of the Plowden Committee, which devoted three years to looking at them. It would have been impossible to have gone through this experience without being struck both by how good they are in many ways and by how much they need in the way of help, particularly in terms of accommodation and in tackling the size of their classes. It is right, therefore, to give this emphasis to primary schools, and I hope, with the hon. Member for Easington (Mr. Dormand), that this will be extended to include the pre-school section for I believe that here the case for getting nursery schools under way to a far greater extent is strong, as is the case for supporting the pre-school play group movement. On the Plowden Committee I was one of those who signed a minority note saying that we should have nursery schools but that we should be prepared to charge fees to those able to afford them. If we do not do that, we will not see the expansion we need. At the same time the immediate area for expansion must be the deprived or priority areas. The evidence is that a good start in mastering language and something of the atmosphere of school is invaluable to children who are brought up in these areas. I hope that in the next year or so headway will be made in this connection. Although I believe that the primary sector is vitally important, some of our biggest problems remain in the secondary sector, where we have some very great difficulties to face. They are, perhaps, not so much difficulties in terms of facilities, buildings and so on as difficulties of philosophy, discipline and organisation. I acknowledged earlier that I had a duty to be uncontroversial in my maiden speech. I will not, therefore, talk of the essential topic today, though I want to talk briefly about comprehensive schools generally. In many areas they are the right thing, and I am sending one of my children to a comprehensive school, which indicates that I approve of them. At the same time, I believe that comprehensive schools produce certain difficulties which we do not always face. However, it seems that they are not, on the whole, insuperable difficulties, though it does no good to ignore them, as sometimes happens. The first is that to which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State referred; namely, the problem of size. It is not only that there is a problem of finding the right buildings, though this is a major difficulty. There is the problem which has to do with the atmosphere—the discipline and internal communications. On the whole we have become rather more chary in the last few years of saying that bigness equals efficiency, that big equals good. This applies in all sorts of fields of life and not only education, but I believe that when we get to schools of 2,000 or so the chances of having a difficult social situation inside them are greatly increased. I think also that there is a problem which is perhaps not fully appreciated of finding head teachers who are able to run such schools. It is a very different thing to run a school of 2,000 or so pupils from running a school of 300 or 400 pupils. It calls for skills which are different. So I believe that schools of 2,000 on the whole tend to be too big, and yet, of course, our problem is that we do need big schools if we are going to have adequate sized sixth forms. As many hon. Members know, the Inner London Education Committee, on which I served, recently carried out a survey of the extent to which London secondary schools are able to provide what they consider to be adequate sixth forms. The report argued that the minimum size for a sixth form should be 40 per year; in other words, in the first year of A level work they needed 40 pupils taking A level and in the second year another 40. The report said that in 1968 58 per cent. of the London schools had fewer than 40 pupils in their first year on A level work and 77 per cent.  fewer than 40 in their second year of A level work. This exposes a very big problem. The question is: what do we do about it? How do we provide adequate sixth forms and yet keen the size of schools down? Again, I am quite sure that the essential long-term answer is to get away from the 11 to 18 schools. It seems to me, for one thing, that 11 to 18 is too big a span. I was talking recently to the head of one of the well known comprehensives and she made exactly the same point. She said that in her belief we are really dealing with quite small children at one end of the scale and with adults at the other, and it is a very difficult thing to deal with both in one single community. So do let us try to get away from the 11 to 18 system. But let us see what other systems make better sense. I do not myself think that a break at 14 makes very good sense. The Leicestershire plan had a good deal to be said for it in its own context, but I do not think it is a very good long-term solution. It seems to me that a break at 14 produces difficulties both for the 11 to 14 section and for the 14 to 16 section—that is, for those who are to leave school at the earliest opportunity. I do not think that 14 is the right place to look for a break. The systems I favour are first perhaps what one would expect from a member of the Plowden Committee—the three-tier system and alternatively the sixth form college system. I think we must acknowledge that neither of these would normally be easy to achieve, anyway in administrative terms. It can be done, but it is not easy. It was very sad that when the Labour Party regained control of the Inner London Education Authority it scrapped the attempt we had made at Thamesmead to introduce the three-tier system. The ground on which it said it scrapped it was that it was administratively a difficult system to operate in an area which also had the ordinary 11 to 18 pattern. Well, no doubt there were considerable administrative difficulties, but we had made an attempt to experiment in London, and London, for all its great virtues in education, seems to me to be unduly rigid. I think that this was a case where one should have tried the experiment to find a better system, and attempted a bit of a gamble. I do not believe that either the three-tier system or the sixth form college system will be easy to achieve in terms of their educational philosophy. A three-tier system certainly takes a bit of time to evolve. I have seen middle schools, and I recognise that they have growing pains; yet ultimately the notion of introducing in primary schools subjects like science and a language from the secondary school makes what is potentially a very good system and one which we should try to back. The sixth form college system also has great merits. It allows for the different nature of children, as they grow into the upper teens. Again, there are administrative and practical difficulties. In particular teachers may tend, if they are highly academic, to turn to the sixth form college with the result that we denude the second-tier of such teachers. I believe that this has, in fact, happened in some of these experiments. However, my point is simply that, although there are difficulties of this kind, I do not think they are basically insuperable difficulties. We simply need to try to get away from the 11 to 18 pattern to one or other of these two better alternatives and it would be worth while to exercise a bit of patience. I want to say another word about headships. It is difficult to get heads for these very big schools, but there is another problem that we have to face, and that is security of tenure of heads. It is a fact at the moment that once a head is appointed he is there for life. Anybody who knows schools will realise that occasionally this can be very harmful. We know that there are lots of heads who are absolutely first-rate, but there are a few who are not. This is quite inevitable. If we get a school of 2,000 or so the problem of the poor head inevitably escalates, but we must find a way to get rid of heads who have passed their usefulness. This will be harsh and difficult to do, but I am sure that it is something which has to happen. Another point I want to refer to is the neighbourhood school. I really believe that neighbourhood schools are going to prove to be more or less inevitable. I do not myself see a way round this, but it is in the tougher areas,  so to say, that the case for keeping the selective system, for the time being anyway, seems the strongest. Only a very small number of children are likely to be dedicated to education, and they can easily be swamped by the less enthusiastic majority. If we look at education in the East End of London we see that the grammar schools there have done a tremendously important and worth-while job, and it is in that sort of area that the case for separation still remains the strongest, anyway for the time being. As I say, there are snags about going comprehensive and we should not ignore them or make the mistake of allowing egalitarianism to turn into anti-intellectualism. Nevertheless, as a means of providing good secondary education there is a very great deal to be said for the comprehensive. Through it we can get away from selection and provide a full measure of opportunities and a full course. I believe there will be a continuing trend in that direction. My last point is simply this. I have a feeling that education in economic terms is going to have a rough ride over the next few years. This has nothing to do with the change of Government. I have tried not to be controversial, but I think that the achievements of the Conservative Government in education were quite outstanding. We are going to see demands for very high priorities indeed from other social services. Health will be one. In education, as we all know, there is a continuing problem of trying to cope with ever-increasing numbers: we have to run in order to stand still. So it is not going to be easy for education. It is because of this that I believe that it is extremely important that we really should know what we are doing, and must have the highest possible standards of attainment, and a continuing understanding of the organisation and processes of education, over the next 10 years.
