gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I hope that the Committee will be kind enough to exercise its tolerance for a speech from a Member rising to address the Committee for the first time. I realise that there are many hon. Members on both sides of the Committee who wish to speak, so I intend to be very brief. However, I am very pleased to have an opportunity to speak in this debate. The constituency which I represent is a great farming area, with the exception of its north-eastern end where some of my electorate work in the chemical and the steel industries. Most of the people in my constituency are directly or indirectly connected with agriculture. Richmond is the largest constituency in England, covering over 600,000 acres, or nearly 1,000 square miles, and I have one voter for every 10 acres. It is a very lovely part of England and has the beautiful dales of Wensleydale, Swaledale and Teesdale, and the ancient and lovely Borough of Richmond. My noble and gallant predecessor, who gave great service to the House of Commons as the Member for Richmond for more than thirty years, was once the Minister of Agriculture. I think that I will always remember one of my first election meetings in the dales when an old farmer came to me and said, ""Young man, if tha' gets in and looks after us half   as well as Captain Dugdale did, tha'll not do so bad."" As a farmer myself, I shall try to be no more controversial than any farmer when referring to the Annual Price Review. However, there are one or two comments on my right hon. Friend's speech which I have to make. I am afraid that I do not altogether agree with any of the three speeches which have already been made, but I do not wish to be controversial and I will try to avoid controversy as much as possible. For many years, successive Ministers of Agriculture have called for increased production and efficiency, and no industry could have responded better to those requests. Agriculture has been very alive to the problems of increased production, but I believe that there is still a great deal of room for expansion within the industry. Let us take as an example the improvement in yields of grain which the hon. Member for Enfield. East (Mr. Mackie) mentioned and the ever-increasing productivity in and standard and quality of both pedigree and commercial cattle. In 1957, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, then Minister of Agriculture, moving the Second Reading of the 1957 Agriculture Measure, welcomed the opportunity to introduce the Bill, for two reasons, and said: The first is that it is a Measure which will, I am confident, prove a milestone in the industry's progress towards still higher produotivity.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT. 25th March, 1957; Vol. 567, c. 807.] Now, three years later, it appears from the February Price Review that the Government consider that with some commodities we have reached a situation in which further expansion is not to be encouraged. While I agree with a great deal of what my right hon. Friend has said, it is not easy quickly to cut down costs, expansion and production. It can be done, but it takes time. I believe that we would have had much more severe criticism from the farming community about the Price Review but for the fact that it follows a year when the weather was extremely kind and helped the industry and when there was a good harvest and increased production generally. If this year is not so favour-  able, we shall be confronted with a much more serious state of affairs than some hon. Members expect. There are many small farmers in my constituency and I know that the Small Farmer Scheme has been of great help in many cases. However, one of the ways in which farming has tried to meet rising costs has been by reducing its labour force. Often, where he has only one or two men, the small farmer cannot do that. It is worth remembering that if he cuts down his labour force, he might find himself unable to claim a grant because of the reduction of man-hours on his holding. I am particularly worried about the future of small farmers. We all know that the job of the farm worker is becoming more complicated all the time and that, compared with the man in the town, he is badly paid for what he does. I am sure that nearly all of us in farming would like the farm labourer's wage to be improved, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to absorb additional labour costs. In the 1947 and 1957 Agriculture Acts, both parties pledged themselves to help agriculture, but one of the Government's duties is to see that subsidies are used to the taxpayers' best possible advantage. We must carefully study some aspects of subsidies. I may not be too popular for saying that the subsidies paid for oats and barley are sometimes money badly spent. Some of the land which attracts those subsidies should not be under the plough for cereal growing. Also, when the price of beef, pork and lamb drops in the markets and subsidies have to be increased to maintain the guaranteed price, this benefit is not always passed on to the housewife. Very often a larger slice is taken by the middle-men. It is our duty to try to encourage the farming community to improve some of its marketing systems, as we are attempting to do with the horticulture industry. I should like my right hon. Friend to give this very serious consideration over the next few months. I am not in favour of the introduction of quotas to limit production, because it so often cramps the style of the man trying to get on. It would be dangerous if marketing boards, feeling that we have reached the stage of maximum production, were to try to operate on these   lines. It has been suggested that the Milk Marketing Board, owing to the increased quantity of milk that has to be sent for manufacturing, should introduce a quota system. I am sure that this would be wrong. I cannot agree with my right hon. Friend that it is a good thing that the Board has had to bring down the retail price of milk by ½d. through the summer months. If the Board had been allowed to maintain a steady price of 8d. throughout the year, it would have been able to get over some of its difficulties. I know that it represents a saving of £13 million to the housewife, but subsidies on milk last year were only £8 million. Already we are exporting cheeses in small quantities to Europe and to Canada. I am certain that to enable dairy farming to continue to expand we shall have to look to the export field and sell some of our dairy products overseas, and in all probability in the next few years do away with the very small subsidy which is paid on milk to the dairy farmer. I am pleased that we have increased the guaranteed price for pigs. It was, indeed, a pity that the breeding herd was so drastically reduced. I am also very pleased to hear from my right hon. Friend that so much interest is being taken in long-term contracts. This will put some stability back into the industry. The bacon factories must have a steady throughput if they are to get anywhere. I am certain that long-term contracts will enable them to do this. I would, however, take up just one thing with my right hon. Friend, who I am sorry is not present at the moment. It would be very wrong if he thought that, because of the high level of rents, all was well in agriculture. It is true that most farmers, when they want to put their sons on a farm nowadays, have to pay premiums to get them there. I do not think that high rents are any reflection on the present state of the industry. Finally, while I accept the Price Review on this occasion, I could not support a policy which, over the next few years, is to limit further expansion. So often over the last year I have heard the expression, "" You've never had it so good "", but I do not think that we should claim that this is a fair slogan for the agricultural industry today.
