gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
On the first occasion that I have the honour to speak in the House, I should like to pay a tribute to my predecessor as the Member for Bridgwater, the late Sir Gerald Wills. Hon. Members on both sides of the House who knew him for longer than I did need no words of mine to speak of his record of loyalty and service to the House of Commons. Suffice it simply to say that the affection and respect in which he was held by the House were echoed to the full throughout the length and breadth of the constituency which he served so many years so faithfully and so well. If I may add a small personal note, his friendship and kindliness to me at a time of great personal disappointment to himself when he first realised that he would not be able to stand again was something which I shall always remember. I have been advised on the virtues of brevity. As I recall, the Chancellor of the Exchequer yesterday also extolled the virtues of brevity and perhaps I ought to explain that he and I have slightly different interpretations of the word. I understand that it is customary on these occasions to speak of one's constituency. I appreciate that this may be a boringly parochial exercise, but the nature of my constituency is sufficiently varied for there to be many lessons to be drawn from it and from the Budget which are of relevance to many other parts of the country. Against the background of the considerable publicity that my by-election, as the first vote for the 18-year-olds, attracted, particularly certain references to the history of the constituency, I should like to reassure you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that my expenses were entirely in line with the schedule laid down by Parliament and bore no comparison with those of some of my predecessors in the seat—the one area at least in which the cost of living seems to have had a dramatic reduction. If I speak first about the industry in he constituency it is because, while it is not normally regarded as an industrial constituency, there is a considerable amount of industry in it. The situation of that industry is, as in many other parts of the country, that we have our pockets  of success and we have our pockets of unemployment. Where we have older businesses, businesses which have died or which are in decline, we desperately need the stimulus and incentive of new businesses to take their place. I looked in vain to the Budget for a real encouragement to new business. We need help for the smaller businesses. My neighbour, the right hon. Member for Devon, North (Mr. Thorpe), has greater attractions than I, if I may put it in a personal way, as he is a development area, if I may personalise it again, and I am not, and this emphasises the need for a more flexible approach in the granting of certificates and the handling of regional development expenditure. The Government have rightly drawn attention to the reduction in Bank Rate, but in looking for a stimulus to new development and new industry I suggest that Bank Rate has merely changed from being quite impossible to totally penal. Moreover, on top of that a very telling remark was made in the Chancellor's speech when he referred to the danger that the cumulative effect of stringent measures could become increasingly stringent without its being appreciated. My fear is that even this modest reduction will do no more than hold the situation where it is, and it is far too tight for any real generation of new business. The other industry in the constituency is increasingly recognised throughout the country as having considerable potential for the balance of payments. It is the tourist industry. I am sorry that we have now lost the hon. Member for Smethwick (Mr. Faulds). One need not go as far as he did with Miss Lorna Doone to know the attractions of my constituency. This is an area which, if one defines it in financial terms, has more than its fair share of the fixed assets of the British tourist industry. It is part of that sector which is at last getting recognition—the earnings capacity of the invisibles. As we move into the Jumbo age this industry, so heavily penalised with S.E.T., could have looked for some real encouragement to enable it to cope with the growth potential of the future. In this connection I am grateful for the courteous welcome that I have had from hon. Members on both sides of the   House in their own ways, although perhaps I could have done without the welcome of the Minister of Transport, who chose my arrival to close the one remaining branch line in the constituency. The implications of that decision are far-reaching and I promise him more of that anon. Another significant activity is agriculture. One does not have to have a close knowledge of the debtor situation of a number of agricultural merchants in the constituency to realise what a critical situation agriculture is in. I looked to the Price Review for some help, but it was minute. I looked to the Budget for some help, but these are only marginal improvements. There is nothing in them which can enable the industry to get back on its feet and move forward again. The Budget might postpone, but it cannot avert a critical situation. Another feature in which the constituency is unusual is in the number of retired people. In this it may anticipate a situation, as anybody familiar with the population trends will know, that will become a much greater feature of a number of other constituencies. I was thinking of them when the Chancellor said that if inflation got its grip, the weaker members would suffer. It occurred to me that he appeared to be referring to the future, but for the retired people in my constituency inflation has had its grip for many years. I find it immensely sad that many people who have retired to my constituency, and thoughtfully made provision for their future, including what they considered to be adequate provision for some increase in costs during that period of retirement, find that the cost of living has escalated so rapidly that this provision is now totally inadequate and they are forced to depend on the State for their subsistence. If we are to have a high-wage economy it must generate a prosperity in which all sections of the community can share. The feature that created the most attention in the by-election, as I mentioned, were the 18-year-old voters. I want to end by saying a word about the young people in my constituency, relevant to young people throughout the country. They have lived for too long in a siege economy. They are looking now for a real incentive and encouragement for the  future. They listened to this Budget and they found not the imaginative voice for the future that can assure them of a future and potential opportunity but instead a continuation of the same slow grind, albeit slightly modified. I looked at the Budget for two main aims. I looked for help for the weak, the unprotected, the vulnerable, those who have not the market power to demand and achieve their ends. I looked for Government care and concern for them and I looked for a real message for the future. In both I was disappointed, and with great regret I listened to a Budget that to my mind has missed a great opportunity.
