gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for this early opportunity to address the House for the first time. My predecessor, Mr. Caerwyn Roderick, is well known and liked in the constituency and the House for his unfailing courtesy and easy manner. He was born and educated in the constituency and later returned to it to build a fine reputation as a teacher of mathematics and later a lecturer. In numerous post-war elections my party strove hard to win this seat. It is a remarkable tribute to Mr. Roderick and Lord Watkins, his predecessor, who is better known in this House as Mr. Tudor Watkins, that between them they successfully fended us off for over 40 years. The best prizes in life are those that are hard to achieve, and this prize is quite simply the loveliest constituency in the country. Every maiden speaker announces that his constituency is a thing of beauty. I modestly ask the House to accept that in my case it may place unhesitating reliance on that statement. I trust that that will always be true of every statement that I make. I invite hon. Members to take their holidays in the constituency if they wait until we have completed the Brecon bypass. We have a longer queue of cars in the town of Brecon and more people coming into the tourist office than anywhere else in South Wales. We boast the Brecon Beacons national park and two of the loveliest valleys in the country, the Wye and the Usk or, to use their even lovelier Welsh names, y Gwy a'r Wysg. We are also the largest constituency, in area, in England and Wales, and cover one-eighth of Wales. The 91 constituencies of Greater London could be dropped   into Brecon and Radnor and there would still be room for the Brecon Beacons national park. We straddle over several local government boundaries, we reach down into Gwent, and we reach into Mid-Glamorgan, but for the most part we are in Powys, and our sister constituency in Powys is Montgomery. The House ran some risk that it might have been a cousin constituency, with one family representing two parties. In the event, the strongest Conservative wave that Wales has seen in 105 years brought in two Conservative Members for Powys. With you in the Chair, Mr. Speaker, one can say of a Welsh day that there in the feeling of a family gathering. For that reason, I hope that I shall be allowed to say how much my cousin, Emlyn Hooson, appreciates the kind messages that hon. Members on both sides of the House have asked me to convey to him. There are two signals that I should like to pick up from the electorate as pointers for this debate. The first comes from the referendum on 1 March, when 80 per cent. of the Welsh voters agreed with those, including the Conservative Party, who urged that, although some innovations were needed, constitutional innovations were less relevant to the immediate needs of Wales than was putting the economy right. Many of us admire the courage and the quality of the contribution that was made to that debate by the independent-minded hon. Members on the Labour Benches. We need a forum, and I believe that we in Wales will gain greatly by the creation of a Welsh Select Committee in which we can achieve discussion that is realistic and formative to enable us to make pragmatic decisions. The second signal that I want to draw out from the general election, if my general election experience is anything to go by, is that what drew so many Welsh voters to our side was our radical emphasis upon a fresh approach to the economy. The people of Wales want lower income tax, incentives, and more encouragement for small businesses and the self-employed. Nowhere in the country is so large a proportion of the employment of the total working population in small business as it is in Mid-Wales. In Wales as a whole, two-thirds of all the farms are of less than 150 acres. Two-thirds  of all the building contractors employ seven people or fewer. Two-thirds of the hotels have 15 rooms or less. Those small businesses are the seed beds for new jobs, and all hon. Members are anxious to see unemployment figures coming down. The worst hit area for unemployment in the whole of Brecon and Radnor is Brynmawr, which had the misfortune in the 1930s of having the highest unemployment figure in Wales, and even in April this year the unemployment rate in the area was 11·8 per cent. There are worrying clouds over Smith's Industries in Ystradgynlais, another important town in my constituency. I am sure that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Industry was right to emphasise in the debate on Monday that we should go through a gradual transition to a fresh industrial policy. We have a mandate for fresh policies, but we cannot achieve overnight miracles. We must carry the whole nation with us in moving towards new industrial policies, clearly understanding that many workers are sincerely though, I believe, mistakenly fearful of the consequences of new policies. As a Member for a thinly populated rural area that is totally dependent on road transport for its economy and movement, I must call attention to the hard impact that our area may feel with the growing shortage of petrol and the certainty of rising prices for motor fuel. We shall be looking to the Government to ensure in negotiations with oil companies that the independent operators, who are so important as sources of petrol in the countryside, still have access to supplies. We must keep a close watch on the real income of the people in the countryside. They have an average real income below the figures for the country as a whole. They will have higher costs to travel long distances to work. We must look very carefully at the impact of fuel costs on the rural parts of Wales and of England. Our farmers have experienced one of the most severe winters in living memory. The Farmers' Union of Wales this week published an estimate that Welsh farmers' losses of sheep and lambs exceeded 500,000 this winter. The extra 50p allowance went little of the way towards paying the extra costs of the severe winter,   and there was no allowance available to the farmers on marginal land. The farmers' plight was made worse by the fact that the computer strike slowed down the payment of cheques, so that the farmers' borrowings have had to be extended at the banks—and that at a very high rate of interest. Our real need in farming is not short-term allowances, however. That is not my point. Our great need is long-term stability for agriculture. I know that the farmers of Wales are hopeful in seeing that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State represents a great agricultural area and that my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is himself a hill farmer just over the border from Powys. We hope that there is here a good understanding of the problems of agriculture. The real income of Welsh farmers has fallen over the past few years. We have made commitments that there must be gradual adjustments in the rate of the green pound. I want to call attention to other ways in which we must ensure that the farmers of this country are not at a disadvantage compared with those elsewhere in the European Community. I give two examples. The first relates to marginal land, which is of great importance to the constituencies of central Wales. The present definition excludes a great deal of marginal land. We need to look at the Community definition of less advantaged areas, because there are funds that could be tapped. This is a most important point on which to work. A second area in which we must ensure that there is no disadvantage for our Welsh farmers is the export of live animals. We are a very important livestock area, with a great production of beef and sheep. There would be a considerable blow to the economy of farming in the area if there were unreasonable restrictions on the export of live animals. There should, of course, be control to ensure that the transport is decent, but we must not be at a disadvantage in export regulations compared with our Community partners. I close by referring to a report that is due very shortly and that will be most important for the future of farming—the  report of the Northfield committee on land ownership. We face an increasing crisis in finding an opportunity for young people who were not clever enough to choose farmers as their parents to obtain an entry into farming. I hope that when the Northfield committee has produced various options, both sides of the House will be able to study them in a nonpartisan way. Indeed, I hope that we shall work together on Welsh issues throughout the life of this Parliament. That is why I put such faith in the creation of a Welsh Select Committee.
