gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
One experience that I seem to share with most new Members is that I have been greeted with an avalanche of mail. It comes tumbling through the letter box day after day. For a while, it was bewildering. One noticeable feature is that the bulk of the mail concerns housing. It seems as though the election of a new Member raises some small hope in the minds of many people that somehow the new man might just be able to do something for them. What we read in the letters are the chronicles of despair of people who have been waiting and waiting. They are not waiting for somebody to transform their lives by magic; they are simply waiting to be given a decent house. As a result of the things that I have been told in the letters that I have received during the past two weeks and because of my experience of several years as a councillor, I welcome the emphasis placed in the Gracious Speech on the commitment to raise the housing supply. I welcome the commitment to provide a sufficient supply by the various different means described. I am not too much concerned with the means by which houses are built. I know that what matters is the provision of houses, whether they are to be bought or rented, or whether old houses are to be made habitable. Experience tells of the devastating effects on families of bad housing. I am sure that all hon. Members will agree that the family is the basic unit of our community and that the vitality and health of the family is the basis of the health and vitality of the community. It must be accepted that wretched housing conditions smash families. Such conditions cause physical and mental damage. That applies particularly to the mothers of families living in bad conditions. Bad conditions lead to low educational performance by the children and cause a vicious cycle of destruction. The children of families who are badly housed fare badly as a consequence. In turn they end up at the bottom of somebody's wages scale. Later they arrive at the bottom of somebody's housing list. That means an endless wait. Again they start the familiar pattern of life that their parents had to endure. That means demoralisation. Very often someone in public life who has never waited on a housing list and who has never had to worry about how much a house costs will say that such people need to be remoralised. It is hollow and cruel hypocrisy to say such things to people in that situation. In my political activities I have visited homes which seem like shell-holes in a battlefield. The people living in these places were keeping their heads down and hoping that society would not lob yet another deadly missile in their direction. Their attitude was, ""For heaven's sake go away. Do not notice us."" Their experience of the system has been disaster after disaster, indifference and hopelessness. It is not difficult to understand why such people sometimes say to parliamentary candidates, ""Why should we vote for you or for any of you?"" They are not interested in the Common Market or somebody's notion of freedom or liberty. They are not much interested in things called capitalism and Socialism. That is because they are at the dirty and sharp end of the system. They know what our cruel system can do to people  who are not in a position to defend themselves. For them it is not next week, next month or next year, but now. They are concerned with the cost of today's groceries, this week's rent and whether the next rainstorm will mean yet another wet night in a bedroom. What is the council going to do about their street? What will the landlord do to them next? And so on. These are not perhaps thought of as great issues, but nevertheless they are plain, awful, devastating things which we have to translate into politics, into the policies of what I would call ""satisfaction""—the satisfaction of people who are in need. The central element in any family's standard of life is the kind of house it lives in. As a nation, our housing performance is truly deplorable. We spend far less as a proportion of our national expenditure on housing than we do on defence. The strange and sad fact is that if anyone suggests that we cut defence expenditure there is great noise in the land, but one can cut housing expenditure at a stroke—indeed, stroke after stroke—without any such protest. That is the record of house building in the 1970s. There was a time when we managed to build more than 400,000 houses in one year. Last year, we built fewer than 300.000. Yet perhaps even that was an achievement because, clearly, someone made deliberate decisions to cut down on the construction industry and the building of houses. That set of decisions was a crime against the British people. I represent the constituency of Selly Oak in the city of Birmingham. Birmingham has a housing waiting list of 31,000 families. The city administration thinks that it might be able to complete 2,000 houses this year. The phrase is not original, but I suggest that this is truly the arithmetic of despair. Such arithmetic shows that the waiting list will get longer and despair more profound. The right hon. Member for Leeds, North-East (Sir K. Joseph) will be perhaps even more frantically convinced that more people need to be remoralised. The proposals in the Gracious Speech for dealing with the housing situation are those dictated by common sense, land, money and the building industry itself. I do not think that anyone would argue against the proposition that a sufficiency   of land needs to be available on which housing can be placed. But I offer, with all humility, the suggestion that Her Majesty's Government should move quickly to ensure that a sufficient supply of land is made available and should not make concessions to those people who already possess property rights in land simply because, in the Government's view, it might be politically dangerous not to do so or might cause some other difficulty. The needs of people who do not have housing should be paramount over the needs of those who possess land. The Government should be prepared to be ruthless in this respect. In the provision of the necessary money, the idea of a stabilisation fund commends itself to me—the idea that housing finance, or at least the interest rates on money available for housing, should be insulated from the commercial market. There are dangers here of which I trust the Government will be well aware. But I believe that the most important element in the solution to the housing problem is the state of the British building industry. It is one of our most inefficient industries. This I believe, is not due SO much to incompetence among the people in managerial positions in the industry as to the industry's unfortunate structure. It is characterised by small operating units which, because of their very smallness and the cyclical nature of the industry, suffer desperately from financial instability. Thus, as and when the weather changes, they die like mayflies and the industry suffers accordingly. One of the long-term effects has been the deplorable failure of training in the industry, so that it has been bled over the last few years, or perhaps even longer, of its skilled and trained people. No industry can be made to recover from such a situation overnight, so I welcome the proposals to revitalise the training system within the industry and, more important, the more general proposals about intervention through the National Enterprise Board in industries which, in the Government's view, need the assistance of the commmunity. I assure the Government that the building industry is in dire need of help from the Government and that the community is in dire need of an energetic and efficient building industry. Much has been made by right hon. and hon. Members on both sides of the House about the great economic crisis. There is, of course, an economic crisis which affects the so-called Western or free world almost universally. But far too little is made of the great crises which occur every day in the lives of ordinary people. I have referred to one dimension of crisis in the lives of working people—housing. There is for ordinary people a crisis every day—there is absolutely no end to crises. Yet one does not hear Cabinet Ministers or would-be Cabinet Ministers falling off hovercraft or jumping up and down on the spot talking about the crisis of ""Mr. Nobody"" who lives in a dingy street in a miserable excuse for a house with virtually no chance of a decent place in which he can live. Yet his is the real crisis, because he is the nation. I put it in this way because another aspect of the crisis propaganda—and it is propaganda—is that there are people in the world whose confidence is important to us. It is not difficult to understand. It is the confidence of a bank president here, a company chairman there—and ""here"" and ""there"", I remind the House, may be New York or Hamburg or even Yokohama. The poor man who lives in Selly Oak is not mentioned in this context. Yet it is his confidence that truly matters. He should feel satisfied that he lives in a country which cares about his confidence and rather less about the confidence of those far-away people in remote institutions in New York, Hamburg or Yokohama but whose confidence is apparently so desperately important to so many people in public life. There is a grave misplacing of priorities here in the minds of so many public people. The confidence of such persons is of no importance at all. When the argument about confidence is advanced, what is being said in effect is that the priorities of the man in New York or Hamburg are more important than the priorities of the man in Selly Oak. I beg to differ. I hope that during my parliamentary life I shall go on consistently opposing that view. The priorities of the man in Selly Oak are and should always be paramount. Let the Government concentrate on that.   Let them concentrate on the confidence of the average family in Selly Oak and less on the confidence of these other groups elsewhere. If they do so, Her Majesty's Government will enjoy not only a successful tenure of office in this Parliament but success at the next election, and the next and the next.
