gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am aware of the indulgence that the House usually extends to new Members on the occasion of their maiden speech, and I am most grateful for it. My only regret is that I shall find it most difficult to be non-controversial in return. In the first place, this Bill hardly lends itself to that kind of approach. I remember that my first piece of Parliamentary advice, which came to me when I was a teen-ager, was from the late Mr. James Maxton, who was, I believe, a very well-loved Member of this House. He told me that if I ever succeeded in being elected to Parliament I should make the most of my maiden speech because it would be the only time that I would be allowed to get away with murder. I am told that the position has not changed substantially since that time. My constituency is part of the vigorous and progressive city of Leicester, and my constituents mainly are engaged in footwear, textiles, and light and heavy engineering. There is, however, a large minority comprising clerical and sedentary workers in that population, and that is one reason that I have for welcoming the Bill. The second reason stems from my experience as an executive officer of a white-collared trade union, the Transport Salaried Staffs Association, which has 87,000 members who will be considerably affected by the Minister's proposals. I think that we are all agreed that non-manual workers are becoming increasingly important in our society. They are certainly experiencing great changes in their working methods. A developing technological and scientific revolution is taking place in offices today no less than on the factory floor, and the mechanisation of office procedure has brought with it conditions which certainly industrial workers would never tolerate. By and large, industrial workers have gone ahead in improvements in health, welfare and safety, while the non-manual workers have lagged considerably behind. Nowhere, however, will the Bill receive greater welcome than that which will be given to it by the railway clerks. I hope that I shall be forgiven if I spend a moment or two on that situation, because I have worked with them and for them for the last 20 years. They have certainly been very patient. They have seen the Gowers Committee's recommendations, they have listened to promises, they have been in discussions, and they have had to wait 13 years for this Bill to come before the House. The railway administration abounds with offices and premises which are dirty, confined and frequently damp. What is accepted as elementary in many other spheres, electric light, adequate heating and proper ventilation, is nonexistent in scores of railway offices. They are clerical slums. In the past, we have seen many former colleagues ending up in the sanatorium, or contracting contagious diseases, as a direct result of the appalling conditions in which they have had to work. I could take hon. Members to offices which would be revealing to them. Near my own constituency there is a railway yard master's office which measures 12½ ft. by 9 ft. by 9 ft. It regularly accommodates three people and often four. There are no staff amenities; the toilet facilities are more than 100 yards away; storage accommodation is 80 yards away. There is a large railway commercial office in Manchester where water regularly leaks through the roof and it being Manchester, I mean regularly. Pools form on the floors in this office and the staff is reduced to using metal waste paper baskets to catch the water. Not far from the House of Commons there is a large railway terminus of the Southern Region, and at this time of year and during the rest of the winter months the inspector in the train announcer's office sits with his feet in a cardboard box stuffed with newspaper in an effort to get extra warmth because the office is so badly heated. To be fair to the British Transport Commission, it inherited some shocking premises from the former private railway companies. In the last twelve or thirteen   years, the Commission has been preoccupied with priorities for modernising traffic movement. Although it has recently been spending larger sums of money on improving and building new offices, about £5 million or £6 million over the last four years, that has been chicken feed compared with what has to be done, and in any case the expenditure of money on patching up and building offices has often been directly due to the representations and pressure brought upon management by the trade unions in the industry. Now the law will compel the Commission to act. Or will it? I am bound to say that, coming as it did after years of talks and promises and postponements, the Bill could have been a good deal better. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Southwark (Mr. Gunter) that it ought to cover more occupations and more places of work. Why have the recommendations of the Gowers Committee in respect of theatres and other places of entertainment and coal depôts and dental mechanic work rooms been left out? Why have they been abandoned? I remind the Minister that these things were included in a memorandum of Government proposals issued in 1952 and widely distributed to all interested parties, including the T.U.C. I remind him further that on 14th July, 1955, the then Home Secretary, then Major Gwilym Lloyd George, told the House in a statement in reply to a series of Questions from my bon. Friends that the legislation which the Government would ultimately bring forward would cater for these people. Why have they been left out? I must confess that I find some of the Bill's provisions about exemptions frightening in their implications. They could lead to indefinite continuance of slum offices in view of the great delay between the enactment of the Bill and its operation. The specified period of grace of two years ought to be only one year. If employers are to have the right of appeal when an enforcing authority refuses exemptions, is it not fair and just that employees or their trade unions should have the right of appeal against the granting of an exemption by an enforcing authority? There are one or two notable omissions in the Bill. For instance, there is  no mention of any restriction on noise. As I have said, same of the greatest developments in automation are taking place in offices, and noise can be a serious interference with health and convenience. I am sorry that there is no mention of underground offices and accommodation. I bad hoped that future construction of underground offices would have been prohibited and existing underground offices would have been able to continue only if approved by a local authority. However, that is not to be. Of course, there are many provisions which I greatly welcome, especially in relation to ventilation and temperature, although perhaps I could quarrel a little with the degrees of temperature which are specified. Why are they expressed in Fahrenheit when it is now official policy to encourage the use of centigrade measurements? Perhaps that is something which can be considered in Committee. On the whole, I think that the Bill is a faltering step in the right direction. It is the most comprehensive Measure we have had yet, but it has its weaknesses, and I hope that by the time it returns to the House from Committee it will have been considerably improved.
