gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am most grateful to you Mr. Speaker, for calling me to make my maiden speech in this important debate. I suppose that, because it is my maiden speech, I am not obliged to say overmuch about the speech of the hon. Member for Sheffield, Heeley (Mr. Spence), except that I enjoyed it immensely, especially the first part, and I look forward to hearing from him, as do other hon. Members I am sure, in the future. In response to my hon. Friend the Member for Bassetlaw (Mr. Ashton), I would like to say that my interests are quite clear. I have been a trade unionist for 20 years and for the past 10 years I have been an official of the National Union of Public Employees, until my election to this House. Therefore, I am keenly interested, as some of my hon. Friends are, in the contents of this document. Before I turn to the document, I hope that the House will allow me to say something about my predecessor. I suppose that for some maiden speakers talking about their predecessors, whom they have defeated in a keenly fought election, can be something of an embarrassment. In my case, I have no such impediment because I succeeded Mr. Fred Blackburn, who represented Stalybridge and Hyde for the best part of 20 years. He was a very popular Member of Parliament, and I think that all hon. Members must know of his knowledge of procedure and the Rules of the House. He was held in great respect by hon. Members on both sides. Mr. Blackburn was also respected in another way. It is not generally known in the House, perhaps, that he was a greatly loved man in his constituency. In the boroughs of Dukinfield, Stalybridge and Hyde and the urban districts of Longdendale and Tintwistle he was greatly loved because he cared about the problems of his constituents, and they regret very much that he had to retire. I hope they do not regret too much that I am here in his place. I want to turn now to one or two aspects of the document, which is called a Consultative Document and which, as   my hon. Friend the Member for Derby, South (Mr. Walter Johnson) said, is no such thing. The Government have repeatedly stated that they have no intention of altering the major tenets of the Bill. Therefore, it must be seen by the way they have gone about their so-called consultations that they are stubbornly refusing to do anything about the major pillars of the Bill and that their aim is to rush it through as quickly as possible. If the Government think that they have a mandate on this, then that really is wishful thinking. In June not one in a thousand electors knew the likely contents of the Bill, and since this document has been published I am sure that the percentage has not altered in any way. If the Government are really concerned about carrying out their mandate, they should look closely at the one issue which did get them into power—that is, they should act directly on costs and prices. If they were to enact that mandate, I am sure that all of us on this side and everyone in the country generally would be very much relieved. The tragedy of this document is that it is a lawyer's document, written by lawyers, as my right hon. Friend the Member for Blackburn (Mrs. Castle) said, for lawyers and without even a small element of practical application within it. To compare, as the Solicitor-General did—I heard him on Saturday—this document with the Donovan Report is absolute nonsense. The main proposals in Donovan are clearly in opposition to this document. The House knows it, and I am sure that the Solicitor-General knows it in his heart. The Donovan Commission made a penetrating analysis of our industrial relations system, and its Report, issued after three exhaustive years of study and probing and sifting evidence, must be upheld as one worthy of consideration, and not the document before us now. The forerunner of the document was are discussing was not even ""Fair Deal at Work"" but a document written 10 years earlier by the Inns of Court Conservative Association. Those gentlemen, strangely enough, argued then, as now, that the unions had become too powerful for comfort. This crude and bigotted assessment, which cannot match the thoughtful and realistic evidence of  Donovan, would make funny reading if it were not a serious issue. The remedies suggested by the document's authors are clearly seen to be inappropriate to the problem. If the problem is strikes, why are the majority of workers, certainly the public service workers, who have, even by Tory Central Office standards, gone about their business almost strike free, to be subjected to this rigid framework? There is no answer. The dogma has bitten deep. The Tory Party was committed to this course of action long before Donovan's findings became known. My one hope today is that it is not too late. Unfortunately, listening to hon. Members opposite one gets the impression that it is. It is curious, if not a little sad, that it is the Conservative Party that is prepared to wipe away 150 years of history by a few strokes of the lawyer's pen. It is true that we have not got our trade union structure right. This is one of the inevitable consequences of being first in the industrial revolution. I hope that hon. Members opposite and the House generally will recognise that the T.U.C. over the past few years has taken giant strides to put the position right. The problem of horizontal structures in industry and the trade union movement will not be solved by the passing of a Bill of this kind. All the evidence suggests that we shall have not less but more unions and quasi unions if the Bill is passed. Therefore, by opening the floodgates of law the Government will undo the progress that has been made to verticalise and rationalise our union structures. The basic premise from which the Government are operating is that, somehow or other, we are riddled with strikes. Again, the evidence is to the contrary. Professor Turner, of Cambridge University, says in his analysis that the United Kingdom has a lower strike incidence than any other major non-Communist country except Western Germany. He concludes—and I agree— What is at issue is often not the effectiveness of the British system of industrial relations in general but that of the individual management's approach to labour relations, and the obsolete structures of collective organisation, industrial conciliation, and pay—in certain industries.   If the Government are concerned about the weak parts of our industrial relations system, they should concentrate on getting both sides of industry talking about the real issues involved, those which really matter. Instead we are promised a legal Bill of mainly imported laws from North America. That would not be so bad, I suppose, if they worked over there. I shall try the patience of the House possibly by quoting the eminent American labour relations expert, Theodore Kheel: The Government's model for an industrial relations Bill as described in its Consultative Document, relies heavily on three American laws on labour relations. We Americans should be flattered even though significant parts of our system have been omitted. Perhaps we would if we were not in the middle of a strike at General Motors likely to break all records for time lost: if wage increases and living costs were not reaching astronomical heights; if rank and file rejection of negotiated contracts were not at their highest level and if public employees' strikes—illegal in the United States—were not occurring with increasing frequency. Happily, the trade union movement has behaved throughout these difficult months for it with dignity and restraint, and even at the eleventh hour offers constructive and meaningful talks with the Government. It is not seeking a showdown. But I should warn the Government that if a show-down comes, the Conservative Party will find not the trade union movement it found when last in power but a trade union movement which is stronger numerically and certainly with more capable leadership, and more united—blue and white collar unions alike—than ever before in history. Finally, as an ex-A.B.A. boxing champion, I say to the Solicitor-General, who spoke on Saturday of injecting Queensberry Rules into our industrial relations, that even under Queensberry if one leads with one's chin one will get knocked out.
