gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful for being allowed to make my maiden speech in a debate in which so many right hon. and hon. Members wish to speak. I begin by giving a geo-electoral description of the constituency that I am proud to represent. Like many new constituencies, it is not quite what it appears. Only 48 per cent. of it comes from the old Bolton, West constituency, and the remainder comes from the old Westhoughton constituency. I pay tribute to Mrs. Ann Taylor, the former hon. Member for Bolton, West, and to the hon. Member for Wigan (Mr. Stott), who previously represented Westhoughton, for their work in previous Parliaments. My impression is that they were hard-working, conscientious and popular Members, and it will be a privilege for me to try to carry on their work for all my constituents. I hope that the three hon. Members for Bolton will work as a team to get a better deal for Bolton. As might be expected, I am already working closely with my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, North-East (Mr. Thurnham), and I hope to develop a similar working relationship with the hon. Member for Bolton, South-East (Mr. Young). We started on a good footing last weekend, when I assisted him in judging a beauty contest to find the Westhoughton carnival queen. His evident long experience in matters pulchritudinal was an inspiration to the judging panel. The people of Bolton are rightly known for their humour, optimism and industriousness. A few weeks ago, I visited a jam factory and was told by the manager that 80 per cent. of production goes for export. When I asked whether that meant that he sold into that great tariff-free market, the European Community, he replied. ""No—Yorkshire."" The people of Bolton are equally well known for their innovation and enterprise, as the names Whittle, the inventor of the jet engine, and Crompton, the inventor of the spinning mule, bear witness. That spirit of enterprise enabled Bolton to weather the storm of the decline of the textile industry during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Unfortunately, unemployment has shot up by 11 percentage points, to 16 per cent., in the past 18 months. However, despite that and the fact that Bolton is sandwiched to the east and west by the development areas of Rochdale and Wigan and to the north and south by enterprise zones, the people of Bolton, particularly those involved in these matters, are aware of the limited possibility of job creation by conventional Government aid schemes, welcome though they are. We in Bolton expect help from the Government in cases where they can have a direct effect on jobs—where they are the customer for local products and services. I take the case of British Aerospace. Some hon. Members may know that the RAF has a requirement for an anti-radar missile, which takes out enemy anti-aircraft systems by homing in on a radar beam. British Aerospace Dynamics, which employs 3,500 people in my constituency, has done the high-level research and development on such a weapon, but there is a rival American weapons system, and a decision on the purchase of equipment has been repeatedly delayed over the past few months. If the American system is chosen, there will be at least 1,000 redundancies at the British Aerospace works, much advanced technology will be lost and never recovered and up to perhaps £500 million in export sales will be lost. The American system would not produce advantages for us, though there would be short-term employment through offset arrangements. I appreciate that only the Ministers and officials responsible for the decision have the full facts before them when assessing the qualities of the two systems. However, British Aerospace Dynamics, formerly Hawker-Siddeley, has been in Bolton since 1937 and is undoubtedly the flagship of the local engineering scene. It employs 3,500 people and 400 apprentices. Over the past 30 years it has sent thousands of apprentices out into the wider world of industry. It is a model employer which I do not want to see damaged. The ALARM system, as the British Aerospace weapon is called, was a dominant issue in Bolton, West during the election campaign. The livelihood of about 2,000 families depends on that firm's success. The delays and press speculation have been a black cloud hovering over those people's livelihood. If there were a genuine technical or cost reason why the American system had to be chosen —to put it in other words, if the British system were no good — I think that people locally would accept that. However, if we are to believe the press, the main objection to the selection of the British system has been the result of pressure from our American friends to buy their system, perhaps using it as a lever for larger exports of British equipment to America in future. That is unacceptable. I am sure that with all the facts in front of them Ministers will, as always, come to the appropriate decision and I ask them to do so as soon as possible.
