gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I welcome this opportunity to make my maiden speech on so vital a subject for my constituents. There has not been a Member of Parliament for Reading, North since 1955, when the seat last existed. There have been famous Members of Parliament for Reading. For example, the hon. Member for Bethnal Green and Bow (Mr. Mikardo) was a Reading Member for 14 years before leaving us and going east to his new Tower Hamlets constituency. I understand that he has just been elected Chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party. I wish him well, and I am sure that he will keep the conscience of the Left. Another famous Member was my hon. Friend the Member for Torbay (Sir F. Bennett). He sat for the old Reading, North for four years before moving to Torbay. Another distinguished Member from Reading was my hon. Friend who is now Member for Honiton (Mr. Emery). My hon. Friend the Member for Reading, South (Dr. Vaughan) was Member for Reading constituency in the last Parliament, and I thank him very much for the   help he has given me and for the work he did for the Reading constituency as a whole. Reading is an historic town and has a famous abbey, which between the twelfth and sixteenth centuries sent out its brethren all over the south of England. It is interesting that in this modern age hon. Members who have in the past represented Reading or parts of it and have since left have gone their various ways north, east, south and west just as the old brethren of the abbey did. Reading is situated 30 miles from London. It is a busy place. Most of its people work locally but a few commute to London. We go in for specialised products, and Reading is the headquarters of a number of national and international companies. The population includes large numbers of Irish, West Indians and Sikhs and we welcome them into our community. Reading is famous for biscuits, bulbs and beer, but the sad thing about it is that its biscuits, bulbs and beer are all moving. We are now becoming known as a town famous for railways, rivers and rates. This brings me to the purpose of my speech tonight. There is a serious rating situation in Reading, where there has been a rise of 80 per cent. in two years. This is very worrying for the people there. It is not a rich town in the sense that there are a lot of affluent people living there. There are a lot of ordinary people working in the community, many on fixed incomes. There are many young married couples who bought their homes, worked out their finances, and are now finding it difficult to survive because the rate increase has hit them. It is a great tragedy for the small shopkeeper, for whom I particularly wish to plead. I visited a shopkeeper during the election and returned to see him last Saturday to obtain some figures. He owns a small gift shop in a shopping precinct. Over the past two years his rates have risen from £403 to £785, a rise of £382. He tells me that he makes such a small profit on the business that he sometimes wonders whether it would not be better to quit and do something else. This is a serious matter for the community, particularly in areas such as Reading where there are lots of shopping  precincts spread around the town. These precincts contain newsagents', small haberdashers', and similar shops providing useful services. The owners of such shops are worried about the rate situation. It is partly a national picture but not entirely. In Reading we have debts of £51 million; that is £340 for every man, woman and child in the area. The council is taking short-term loans at 13½ per cent. A total of 3 million people borrowed at that rate last year. The council is spending money and paying interest rates before paying out money upon necessary services. It has gone in for extravagant land purchases to build more council housing and has spent money on administration. All leisure activities are running at an enormous loss. There is a national element which comes into this. When I visited my shoe repairer on the street corner and picked up two pairs of shoes which needed mending after I had walked 200 miles during the election my cobbler said to me, ""What will your maiden speech be about?"" I said, ""Rates."" He said, ""I am glad. I absorbed the last rise, but, frankly, I do not know whether I can absorb this one. I am not sure if I can go on."" There are great pressures upon all authorities. This pressure comes from the interest rates, from the demand for improved services such as sewerage and water supply. The increased costs of these schemes work against local authorities. There is great public disquiet. The change in rating policy, made so quickly after the Government came into office, aided our area, but I still believe that it was right to have a formula rather than a blanket increase. Account has to be taken of local circumstances, which the previous proposals did. A number of people have spoken about other methods of raising local finance. This is certainly something we must examine together. Rates are unjust. They work against those on fixed incomes and against young people with large families. There is also the unfairness of the young person who lives at home and uses local authority services without contributing to them. We should examine the idea that national services ought to be paid for from   the national Exchequer. Education is a good example. The Green Paper produced in 1971 was an interesting document. I was chairman of a committee which dealt with it. I was disappointed in that nothing resulted from it. There were many ideas but no proposals. Many countries have moved to local taxation, including the United States and Denmark. There are other possibilities, such as a poll tax. Another suggestion involves a payment for planning applications. Frequently, people who live outside a district will forward a planning application to develop a certain area within it. This costs the local authority a great deal in administration costs, yet there is no revenue. In the local area with which I have been involved, with a population of 76,000, there were 2,500 applications over a period. There could be a great deal of useful income there. The idea of holding lotteries to help the rates ought to be examined. Two local authorities tried to introduce lotteries, Greater London and Manchester. They were turned down. In Quebec lotteries have raised $133½ million since 1968. In Manitoba they have produced ½3·75 million since 1971. This is money which could well be used to develop local services. National Government must help local government. In the past six years I have been greatly bamboozled by the flow of White Papers, circulars and edicts from on high. It is a complete nightmare trying to administer a district. There are great difficulties for local government officials. We should seriously examine the idea of a court of appeal for ratepayers. If I want to build a garage I put in an application and if it is turned down I can appeal to the Minister. If a thousand of us do not like the rate increases there is not much we can do about it. It seems wrong that we cannot make some kind of appeal. I know that the Minister can intervene but perhaps there could be an appeal on the local collective rate. We ought to examine the whole question and work together to find better ways of raising local government revenue because of the injustice and anxiety created by the present system. At present people are deciding not to pay them. That is a terrible situation. I am glad to have had this opportunity of addressing the  House upon a subject on which I feel so deeply.
