gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to speak as a nervous new Member, but I am somewhat fortified by the knowledge that I come here to represent all the people of the Stretford constituency. I am proud to represent it, as I was born in that area and can claim to know it well and. I hope, to understand its people and many problems. The constituency, like many others, is relatively new, and I have to acknowledge two previous hon. Members who represented different parties in the previous Parliament. The hon. Member for Davyhulme (Mr. Churchill) is still a Member here, and I pay tribute to the former Labour Member, Mr. George Morton, who represented the people of Moss Side and who spent years working for his constituency both inside the House and outside. The constituency is like many others, in that it covers both an inner city area and suburbia. Like all such constituencies, it has a unique place. It is, with a great deal of pride, the home of two great football teams, the two great Manchester teams of Manchester United at Old Trafford, still flushed with the victory in the FA cup final, and Manchester City at Maine road, fallen temporarily on hard times, but nevertheless bound to surge back, like the traditional phoenix, at the end of the season. It would be grossly unfair if I did not mention the other Old Trafford, home of the Lancashire county cricket club, another fine sporting institution. Less glamorously, Stretford has a share of the Trafford park industrial estate. As a Mancunian and a Stretfordian, one of the saddest things that I have seen recently has been the steady decline of that industrial estate because of the failure of the private sector to invest and re-invest, not simply in the plant, machinery and building, but in the skills of the people in the area. Trafford park had a fine tradition of skills and as a centre of excellence in engineering and other allied industries. Sadly, investment  in apprenticeship and training has diminished considerably. Thousands of jobs have been lost over the past few years, and that is an indictment of the Government's failed economic policies. My constituency is strongly linked by unemployment, which, far from being a problem only of the inner city area, conditions the lives of many people in Stretford. Unemployment at its highest is 40 per cent. in the Moss Side area. Fortunately, it is lower than that in other areas, but it is still degrading and hopeless for the individuals concerned wherever it happens. I have a large slice of the inner city in the Moss Side and Old Trafford areas, which are both areas of great vitality but of tremendous problems. I pay tribute to them before talking about their problems. Manchester as a whole, and those areas in particular, have a fine record of racial tolerance, despite the vast variety of people with different ethnic origins and backgrounds who live there, which is a tribute to Mancunians and to the efforts and contributions by those ethnic minorities. I am proud of that fact. It has become something of a cliché to talk about the hard-pressed inner cities, but because it has become a cliché we should not lose sight of the fact that there are many problems that are self-reinforcing, such as those of poverty, single-parent families, social isolation, atrocious housing and inadequate schooling, with the loss of employment tacked on to those. We have seen a failure at national level of both intelligence and imagination in the ways in which we tackle the problems of the inner cities. I welcome — one of the few moves in local government that I have welcomed from this Government—the Bill for what it does. I should also welcome the contribution by both private and public capital in the regeneration of the inner city areas. The pump-priming exercise can be vitally important, but we should not delude ourselves that the scale of resources now being applied is even remotely adequate to cope with the scale of the problems that the inner cities face. It would be a tragedy if we were to pretend that we were really getting to grips with the problems in those areas. The third report from the Environment Committee, dealing with the problems of management of urban renewal, says in paragraph 104: High levels of economic distress and social discontent have long been apparent on Merseyside. Disorders of the summer of 1981 we believe were both predictable and predicted. The analysis for Merseyside is precisely the same as that for the inner city of Manchester and of other greater urban areas. Over the last two years the problems have considerably worsened, at least in part because of the Government's vindictiveness towards local government. As a serving member of a local authority, I claim that we should be equal partners and not subservient whipping boys whose job is simply to allocate the cuts made by the Government. The city of Manchester has lost, in real terms, about £60 million in grant over the last few years. There is no way in which the urban development grant will compensate for the loss of that massive amount of resources. Even Conservative-controlled Trafford, my own local authority and always a cheerful cutter, has not fared much better than others in real terms under the Conservative Government, despite its faithfulness to the whims of the various Secretaries of State for the Environment. Inevitably, the cuts have pressed most harshly on the inner city areas and on those who reside in them. As I represent a constituency with a sizeable inner city area, I must view with the greatest unhappiness the seeming callousness of the way in which the inner cities are treated. As a democratic Socialist, I must believe that a society which is prepared to exclude many millions of its countrymen from fair and equal access to the nation's resources is morally bankrupt. As I said earlier, the inner cities have suffered from a failure of imagination. I am sad to ay that, while I welcome the Bill for what it does, I deeply regret the many things that it fails to do.
