gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have the privilege to represent in the House the constituency of Banbury. It has been said that there is no more thoroughly beautiful part of the English landscape. Apart from being a beautiful area of countryside, my constituency is independent, being far enough away from Oxford, London and Birmingham to feel free of them, yet near enough to sell our goods in their markets. There has been a single-member constituency called Banbury since 1554, and I am its 44th Member of Parliament. Among my predecessors were Sir Henry Walsingham and the ill-fated Lord North, the Prime Minister who lost the colonies. With the exception of one Member who, anxious to get out of this Chamber and into the Upper House, murdered his brother in a duel, the other 43 Members of Parliament for Banbury have served it with great distinction. Many of its representatives carne from families with local connections, such as the Copes of Hanwell and the Fynes of Broughton, and it is difficult to enter any parish church in the constituency without seeing a memorial to a former Member of Parliament. It is an awesome reminder of the responsibility that one carries on entering the House of Commons. If I wished to have an example of what is expected of a Member of Parliament, I need look no further than my immediate predecessor, Sir Neil Marten. He is a man of great courage and conviction, who always did what he believed was best for his country and for his constituency, although occasionally it brought him into conflict with the Whips. I was especially grateful to him for the kindness and courtesy that he showed to me. I shall always remember that kindness and courtesy. I hope that I shall always live up to the example that he set, and never let down the constituents who sent me here. The most telling tribute to Sir Neil is not that he is a privy councillor and a knight, which is a recognition of his services to the House, but the love and affection with which he is remembered by the people of north Oxfordshire. All new Members bring to the House different backgrounds and experiences. For the past 10 years I have been the director of a small publishing house that specialises in books on careers and jobs, so I have had a special interest in the youth training scheme, the youth opportunities programme and the history of youth training. Before Opposition Members are led into believing that Banbury is an affluent corner of a pleasant county, I must tell them that unemployment in north Oxfordshire is now 11·5 per cent. I listened with some sadness to the maiden tirade of the hon. Member for Coventry, South-East (Mr. Nellist). I was sad because we both come from the same part of the   country — the west midlands — because we entered Parliament at the same time and because we are the same age. I was especially sad because no one outside the House will understand or appreciate anything that he said. We are here to help the best interests of all the community. The youth training scheme is a fine example of how the community can be united in trying to solve the problems that face it. As I am interested in the youth training service I spent a day last August with the north Oxfordshire careers service. The principal topic of discussion was the new training initiative and the youth training scheme. Frankly, the atmosphere was gloomy. The careers officers did not know who was to sit on the area manpower boards, when many companies in Banbury, Bicester and the surrounding areas were faced with greater difficulties because of the recession. They did not know where they could find the managing agents for these schemes. They were concerned that, having got local employers used to the youth opportunities programme, the introduction of a new system would cause local employers to throw up their hands in horror and say, ""Enough is enough."" I am glad to tell the Minister that the message from the careers service is that provision locally has far exceeded what they dreamt at the beginning of the year. In some areas there is anxiety about the overprovision of places. I cannot believe that Banbury, with 11·5 per cent. unemployed, is much different from areas further into the west midlands, such as Birmingham. I should have thought that the community in the rest of the west midlands could achieve what has been done in Banbury. However, it needs a little initiative and a coming together of the whole community. We have a largesse of riches in some areas. The local community worked out how many places it could find locally in the retail sector. Only now has it been told of the national schemes and companies that will provide places for the scheme. Those hiccups notwithstanding, it is now clear that in north Oxfordshire—as, I suspect, in the vast majority of the rest of the country —we we are trying to ensure that every school leaver has the benefit of a year's training. The target set locally will be met. Unless anyone thinks that that sort of training scheme is merely a sop, a way of hiding the numbers, I give an illustration of the value of the youth training scheme. In Banbury we already have a project called ""Banbury Young Industry"", which was set up six or seven years ago and operates very much as the youth training scheme is expected to operate. It was brought about by the principal of the north Oxfordshire technical college, local employers and trade unionists. It consists of a workshop factory on a light industrial estate outside Banbury where 30 young people each year are given skill training on day release. A short while ago I met the project manager in Banbury high street. He asked, ""Do you know how many of our trainees we managed last year to get into full-time employment?"" When people accost me with that sort of question, my heart sinks. I thought he was about to give a very low number. However, of the 30 trainees who participated in the scheme last year, 100 per cent. have now found full-time employment. It can be done. Any young person with the benefit of skill training is in a far better position to take advantage of what is being offered.  Let us not be pessimistic but see the scheme for what it is. For the first time we have a proper national training scheme. I appreciate that there are difficulties. There may be difficulties with the control of the quality of the product, and there were considerable difficulties in the YOP. That was why the TUC in 1981 called for an education and training programme to replace the YOP. Now that there is an education and training programme, Labour Members do nothing other than carp at it. We now have an opportunity within our individual communities of taking the lead and coming together to provide real training opportunities for young people. A number of employers in north Oxfordshire want to participate, and are participating, in this scheme because they see that they can make a contribution by providing training programmes. One of the problems about the YOP was that companies did not know what was expected of them, but they understand what is expected of them for training. The first local company to register for the youth training scheme was General Foods Ltd., a large American multinational not interested in low wages. It did not participate in the YOP because it did not understand it, but it is participating in the youth training scheme. There are a number of other such companies. Their quality control will be that they will want to be seen to be providing decent training to young people within the local community. Inevitably some projects will be better than others, and some will be better thought out in some regards. After the scheme has been working for a while, it will be beneficial if a note of those schemes that are working well is made up and sent around to careers officers and MSC offices in other areas so that there can be a shared experience of which projects have worked and which have run into difficulties. As has been apparent from today's speeches, there will be a number of criticisms of the scheme and a number of difficulties as the scheme comes to be implemented. However, never let it be forgotten that the youth training scheme is a major step forward to a more systematic approach to, and a recognition of, the need for skilled training. If it does nothing else, in coming into being the scheme has got away from work experience and such things to a systematic approach for youth skill training. As my hon. Friend the Member for Broxtowe (Mr. Lester) said earlier, there is a long way to go, but this is still a major step forward and as such must be welcomed. If north Oxfordshire is a typical example, although there will be difficulties from time to time, there is also enormous potential.
