gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I think it was F. E. Smith who, on an occasion in 1906, succeeded in speaking on a fiscal Measure for a whole hour and succeeded also in giving support to his own side and exasperating his opponents. I hope that I can avoid either situation—the situation of exasperating the hon. Member who has already spoken from the opposite side of the House and also of speaking for too long. I think the hon. Member for Birmingham, Stechford (Mr. Roy Jenkins) has been a little gloomy in his prognostications. Here, we have in Europe a great opportunity, and I think that the President of the Board of Trade, in his negotiations, is certainly to be congratulated on having initiated a step which is only a new interim arrangement which will ultimately lead towards a multilateral arrangement. I feel that at this stage Mr. Dillon, who is now in Europe, wants to do something to mediate between the Six and the Seven, and that this might probably be to our disadvantage. I think that ultimately, if we could have slightly more co-operation on the part of the Commonwealth—and I am thinking of certain commodities from countries in Africa—and they could be associated with the European Free Trade Area, considerable progress should be made towards an ultimate solution. I think our bargaining factors will be manifest in this country. It appears to me that, when one deals with the per capita income of the Seven, that is in fact larger than that of the Six. When we take per capita trade of the Scandinavian quartet, which as a customer is second in importance to the U.S.A., the following facts emerge. In fact, the Scandinavians are buying from us at the rate of about £15 per head, whereas the United States at present is buying from us at the rate of about 35s. per head. I see prospects of expansion in the Scandinavian market. One other factor which we should bear in mind is that France has a lot to lose   in that 16 per cent. of her trade has been placed in jeopardy, and we should realise that France has a favourable trade balance with six out of the seven members of the E.F.T.A. We should remember, too, that Western Germany is extremely vulnerable. While 30 per cent. of her trade is with the E.E.C., 27 per cent. of it is with the Little Seven. Western Germany seems to be in a position in which she wants the best of both worlds, and what we have learned in the negotiations is that she would like to be a member of the E.F.T.A. and at the same time a member of the Community. I hope that ultimately a bridge will be formed, and it will be wrought by the attitude of Germany in these negotiations. I hope hon. Members will appreciate the importance of Switzerland in this setup. Switzerland is the focal point at the present moment, apart from the United Kingdom, of United States investments. Over one hundred companies are represented there, and when one considers that Germany, for her part, exports to Switzerland about five times as much as we do in the United Kingdom, and when we consider, too, that West Germany exports to Austria about nine times as much as we do, we begin to realise the dependence of the E.E.C. on some of the important members of the little Free Trade Area. I say these things with some degree of confidence. It is probably erroneous to attempt to denigrate the value of the bargaining factors that we have available. If I may mention another point, while the Commonwealth preferences seem to have fallen a little into disrepute, it is strange that we should find a compact of European States broadly acknowledged, and, at the same time, accorded certain privileges which are denied to the Commonwealth itself. I feel that we have to accept the inevitable and make the most of it. After all, Europe is extremely important to the Commonwealth, and that should not be sacrificed. I should like in particular to mention the case of one firm in my constituency, that of S. Smith and Sons (England) Limited, more familiarly known in this House as manufacturers of watches and clocks, motor accessories and a host of instruments for industrial application. This company has been faced both with  liberalisation of trade and the onset of the little Free Trade Area. It has been extremely seriously affected by the negotiations which have recently been going on. If we take the demand in United Kingdom for watches as approximately £6½ million, £3½ million is provided by the home market, £2·6 million is provided by the Swiss allocation, and a much lesser figure is provided by the global quota, principally from West Germany and France. When one realises that the Swiss manufacturers control and operate approximately 60 per cent. of the world market, one can understand how easily this domestic industry could be crushed. There are good grounds why it should be safeguarded. It is largely a post-war venture. In several instances the industry in this country has been located in Development Areas pursuant to Government policy, and further depends upon many skilled operatives who, if lost from the industry, would be lost altogether. I hope that the President of the Board of Trade, when he replies to the debate, will confirm that an arrangement has been entered into with the Swiss authorities whereby the Swiss allocation is to be increased by 5 per cent. in 1960 and by 6, 7, 8 and 9 per cent. in the ensuing years. If that is the case, will he say whether he considers that this is safeguarding the watch industry in the United Kingdom, and whether he is prepared to take further steps under the Convention—namely, under Article 10 (8), Article 17 and Article 20, the second of which applies to dumping and subsidies and the third to industries which may be in distress? The clock industry is surrounded by many difficulties. Approximately 60 per cent. of the world market is controlled by Western Germany, which can compete with the United Kingdom by surmounting the 33⅓ per cent. tariff. Western Germany can do that because her wages are 40 per cent. below the wages paid in this country and the hours worked weekly are 2¾ hours longer than in this country. If, on the other hand, she desires to work inside the framework of the little Free Trade Area she can do this by buying a factory in Switzerland or Austria and then she will be able to compete with us here with even greater force. Another difficulty that I see is this. If we care to expand our sales in the   Scandinavian markets, and on the assumption it is open to the Scandinavian countries, being low-tariff States, to arrange a low external tariff, we shall be in difficulties. This can be surmounted easily by the Germans and can imperil the exports already going from this country. I apologise for having spoken at so great a length. I conclude by saying that I approach this subject with great confidence. I feel that if the negotiations which are in hand are conducted in close collaboration with the Commonwealth, and if we manage to win the confidence of thinking people in Europe, these negotiations will be brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
