gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye in this important debate. I do not know whether I am relieved or alarmed to find that I have hit the period between the Front Bench speeches and the time at which hon. Members return from Epsom. It must, I suppose, be a long time since there were more hon. Members on this side of the House than on the other side on Derby day. I stand here in the room of Richard Bingham, who represented Garston in the House from 1957 until this year. Dick Bingham is a courteous and charming man who made many friends in the House. He is much beloved by the constituents of Garston, where he is their pride and joy, being a ""local boy"". About a year ago, he felt that he had to choose between his legal career and his Parliamentary career, and he decided that he would choose the law. Who am I to say that he was wrong? His recent appointment as Judge of Appeal in the Isle of Man is undoubtedly the first step towards greater eminence which, I am sure, will come. He will be much missed in the House. I suppose that for every Member his constituency is remarkable, just as for  every parent his child is remarkable; but for Garston the word ""remarkable"" is too mild. Garston must be very nearly unique. It covers about 13 square miles of the city of Liverpool, and one cannot get much nearer to being unique than that. It has its own dock system quite distinct from the ordinary Mersey dock system, and I am glad to say that this dock system is on the point of being removed from the control of a nationalised board where it has been most efficiently administered, and being handed over to the less public Mersey Docks and Harbour Board. This must be an unusual way for any enterprise to move in these days. Garston has five golf courses within the bounds of the city of Liverpool. It has belts of rolling parkland. It has an industrial estate, it has Speke Airport, and it has Woolton Village, a famous name in the Conservative pantheon. Above all, it has 67,000 of the kindest, warmest-hearted and most hospitable people I have ever met. I should know, because I am the first southerner ever to be elected for this constituency. They have taken me to their hearts, and I only hope that I shall not let them down. There is another feature of representing a Liverpool constituency which may not be entirely appreciated by all hon. Members, and that is that once a year about this time half one's constituents come to London on the same day to see one or other of their football teams playing in the Cup Final at Wembley. This was the other day, and they came as usual. I would also point out that if one hears a violent argument going on in Liverpool, even during a General Election campaign, between a group of men, and the name ""Wilson"" is being bandied about, they are talking about the Everton full back and not the Prime Minister. Liverpool priorities are sometimes slightly humbling. New Members of Parliament have three advantages to which I wish briefly to refer. First, there is the extraordinary kindness and courtesy which is shown to them by all hon. Members on both sides of the House. This has been referred to by many maiden speakers, and I add my tribute to all hon. Members for this feature. Every one has been enormously kind to me. I should like especially to   mention the hon. Members representing Liverpool constituencies on the other side of the House—I am afraid that I cannot at the moment see any of them here—who went out of their way to show me the ropes. I am most grateful to them. The second courtesy is the indulgence shown to the maiden speaker, which is being shown to me now. A third, which comes from circumstance rather than tradition, is that, by definition, new Members of Parliament are able to look at things through the eyes of the general public rather more easily than other hon. Members can because we are closer to being members of the general public than the others are. It must be admitted that this time the new Members of Parliament have been thrown into the deep end of Parliamentary matters rather fiercely. We had a Budget debate about 24 hours after we came here. Since then we have had a Motion of censure, several pieces of major legislation and a message proclaiming a state of emergency. There have been many things in the space of four or five weeks which in other circumstances we might not have met for a long time. These things have made a considerable impression on us, perhaps more impression on new hon. Members on this side than on the other side for obvious numerical reasons. We have seen many things happening. During the Budget debate we saw the Chancellor refusing to give the House the date on which the Ministry of Labour Bill would be published, and we kept our counsel. During the debate on the Motion of censure on a Minister, we saw an hon. Member, for whom I have the greatest regard, brought into the House in an attempt to turn the whole thing into a boisterous farce. In the debate on the Land Commission Bill we saw a Minister refusing to give the House what the estimated levy of the Bill would be, and we kept our counsel again. Perhaps I might say—I know that I am a little out of order—that from the height of my extreme ignorance it would seem to me to be more profitable for any reform of the procedure in this House to turn its attention towards limitations of the power of the Executive in the shape of the Government Front  Bench than to trying to take away any of the pieces of harmless ceremonial which remind us of the strenuous efforts of this House during its history to reduce the power of the Executive in the person of the Sovereign. The action of the Minister during the Land Commission debate in refusing to give the estimated yield of taxation was surely a twentieth century version of the reasons why in the seventeenth century Charles I was executed. I am not one who normally advocates capital punishment, but in this case the precedents seem to be remarkably strong. I turn to the subject of this debate—the Finance Bill in particular, and the Selective Employment Tax. I have one simple question to which I should like the Chancellor to reply. To me and to many others it is still not clear, in spite of the cogent speech of the Chief Secretary this afternoon, exactly what the Chancellor's objectives are in imposing that tax, and, in patricular, how he reconciles it with other objectives of the national economy which he and his colleagues constantly put at the top of the list of our national priorities. It is easy to ridicule the tax, and so many have done it far better than I can that it would be almost sadistic to continue. Who would have thought that we should ever see the Governor of the Bank of England and other eminent bankers put in the same category for taxation purposes as a lady employed by a striptease joint, simply because neither is productive? It seems to me that this is not a logical or sensible categorisation. In the Budget debate the First Secretary said that it was a question of rough justice. On this side of the House the roughness is painfully obvious but the justice is scarcely visible. Before I came to this House I had the honour and privilege of being a manager in a large industrial concern. I am told that there are very few managers in this House. I do not know why that should be. It has been suggested that, whereas there are plenty of company directors and trade union officials, there are very few managers, because managers cannot be spared. It would not do for me to follow that line of thought very far, because, after all, I have been spared. However, I believe that we   should have more managers in the House, and I will explain why. Part of the job of a manager—perhaps the most important part—and the thing which distinguishes a good manager from a bad manager, or a manager from a non-manager, is the ability to foresee the result of one's actions before deciding what to do, and before putting a decision into practice, to be able, roughly anyway, to foresee what will happen when one does so. That is what management is all about. I believe that the Selective Employment Tax has been imposed without anybody foreseeing what effect it will have on the nation. In order to illustrate this, I will take one or two of the sections of the economy and explain my meaning. The first one, of which I know something, is the milk industry. The price of milk is controlled throughout every stage of its long journey from the farm to the doorstep. The price which a farmer gets for his milk from the Milk Marketing Boards is set by the Minister of Agriculture at the Annual Price Review. It is then allotted by the Boards according to the estimated gallonage to be used for liquid milk and manufacturing milk. Then the agreed costs of the producers and distributors of milk are set by abstruse calculations based on costings from dairy companies all over the country, and decided by the Ministry, on a cost plus basis. These calculations are made to three decimal points of 1d. per gallon. Everything is calculated, everything is fixed and everything is arranged. This is a controlled industry. It is the last controlled industry. It is the last relic of wartime food controls. Whether it should continue to be so is an argument that I should like to deploy on another occasion; but it is. Into this controlled situation the Chancellor suddenly introduces a new tax. He intends, we presume, to tax milk distribution with the Selective Employment Tax. I should like to know what he is trying to do to the price of milk on the doorstep. Is he intending to increase it; or is he intending to say to the housewife ""You cannot have the milk on your doorstep every morning, where you want it, because it will cost the milkman too much to put it there""? Would it not  have been more honest and more ethical to have said to the electorate before the General Election campaign that if Labour got back to power milk would either be more expensive or would not be on the doorstep in the morning? My second point concerns the building industry, which has been mentioned by many other hon. Members. The architectural profession will be greatly hit by this tax. There is a grave shortage of labour in that profession. We have not enough architects. Private firms of architects serve local authorities and the central Government all over the country. Is it the Chancellor's intention to make the architects more expensive or to make the service given by them less efficient? We ought to know. We ought to know what he is trying to do—if he has, indeed, decided what he is trying to do. Many hon. Members have spoken about the effect on charities. I am sure that there is not a single hon. Member in this House who has not had representations from his constituents about the effect of the tax on charities. I have here a formidable letter from one of my constituents, an archbishop—and that is a frightening sort of letter to have. The Archbishop of Liverpool and the Bishop of Liverpool live in my constituency. I am somewhat worried about what I shall have to reply. The Archbishop writes: It seems to me that in this matter a basic principle is at stake, and I hope that you will use all your influence in persuading the Chancellor of the Exchequer that registered charities should be exempt from this additional and crushing burden. My influence on the Chancellor is minimal, but somehow I have to reply to the Archbishop. So I urge the Chancellor, in order that I may send a reasonable reply, to interpret generously what the Chief Secretary said when he told the House that the Chancellor ""will consider in principle how and in what form charities might be recompensed"". I hope that the Chancellor's decision will give me every assistance in replying to the Archbishop. Inventors of new taxes are not noted in history books very kindly. Morton, of ""Morton's Fork"", is not remembered kindly, and Callaghan of ""Callaghan's Cudgel"" will not be remembered kindly, either. But there is one way in which he can make his memory sweeter and that is   to tell us what his objective is. People do not resent so very much being taxed so long as they understand the purpose. In this case, they do not understand. They feel that the tax is being put up as a cockshy to be knocked down by the strongest lobby. That is Government by pressure group, and it is inevitable when the necessary homework has not been done. During the next few weeks we shall spend many long and weary nights of tedium in considering this tax until the very words ""Selective Employment Tax"" will stink in our collective nostrils. I hope that the Chancellor will enable the process to be more pleasant by explaining to us today what he expects the outcome of the tax to be. I thank you, Mr. Speaker, and the House, for your indulgence.
