gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
The House accepted the principle of artificial insemination during the last Session. I must confess I look on the practice with suspicion and see in it certain dangers. We have managed to breed cattle for a great many years without adopting this practice, and for my part I heartily dislike it. However, medical science has made use of all sorts of dodges to effect cures and I look on this practice as a stepping stone to the improvement of various herds and as giving opportunities to the small man, but not as a method for adoption as a general practice. I think it would be a great danger if we were too readily to extend this practice widely, until we have a great deal more experience of its results. I have studied the licensing rules drawn up by the Minister of Agriculture for   these centres. They seem to me to be very adequate and to cover a great many necessary factors. They make provision against disease in the centres, for the staff being properly qualified and for the keeping of records, which is of great importance. But there are one or two points which they do not cover and which I would recommend to the Minister's consideration. It is important that the cost of this service to the consumer—to the man whose cows are to be served by artificial means—should be as low as possible. It is recommended in the Minister's regulations that a minimum of 25s. for service should be the general fee, or £3 for service if you choose your bull. Provision is also made for more expensive bulls and it is recommended that a service from an expensive bull should be at the rate of one per cent. of the cost of the animal. I hope that the Minister will keep an eye on these costs, so as to provide a service, as liberal as possible, to the poor man and so that this practice is not made a profit-making business. I do not think we want that. If you take, for example, a bull costing £300, his services are available at one per cent., that is £3 per service. It is possible for a bull to serve at many as 1,000 cows. If he does so that bull will mean £3,000 a year and the bull may be used for four years and bring in £12,000, which is a pretty good income. That matter should be watched. That brings me to the number of cows a bull should serve by this means. There are dangers in allowing them to serve too many. I think the Minister should impose a limit. One hon. Member has said that there is a limit of 15 miles at one centre. I think that at the centres in Reading and Cambridge there is no limit and semen can be sent all over the country. We have already had a dissertation from the non. Member for Northampton (Mr. Paget) on breeding. You may have a bull which turns out to be a complete failure. You have only to look at Derby winners, to see that many do not get good stock. If you allow a bull to serve 1,000 cows you will not know what stock he is producing, at any rate for three years—until the cows grow to maturity and come into milk. I think therefore the Minister should limit the number of cows. Perhaps he would consider whether he should not limit all bulls during their first year, until their calves can be seen. He might make a limit for  three years until the stock is known to be good. Proven sires could then be used without restriction. There is, of course, the danger of inbreeding from this method, but that is not a very serious matter at present. There are no regulations in the licensing rules I have seen, which make it illegal to use bulls for crossing. I think we have sufficient breeds of cattle in this country already. I am not sure how many they are, but I believe there are over 30 and I feel one of the first steps to improve them should be to cut out cross breeding. It has a useful purpose to serve, but, on the whole, I feel it is unnecessary. Most of our bad herds have been produced by indiscriminate crossing. A man will buy a selection of cows of many breeds in the market and then use one bull and then another—a Shorthorn and then a Friesian, and when he finds the milk is the watery stuff which the old-time Friesian used to produce, he might try a Guernsey in order to produce good milk. But he does not do anything of the sort and a thoroughly bad herd is produced. I recommend the Minister to cut out crossing altogether. Crossing has one purpose to serve; there are bad dairy herds, and they should be put to a beef bull and their calves used as stores and sold for fat-stock and nothing else. I recommend that course to the Minister so as to weed out the produce of all bad cows. I do not, as0 I say, like this practice. I do not think it is really necessary, and I hope it will not be adopted by the leading herds. It is, I feel, a rather ""chancy"" business, not yet proven and I dislike departing from the natural method of breeding. I look upon it as a medical aid to improvement, and I hope the herd societies will rule it out and not allow calves produced by this method, to be entered.
