gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I approach what to me is a most formidable task in addressing this great Assembly for the first time, but I know that there will be extended to me that generosity which the House always extends to an hon. Member making his maiden speech. I felt an urge to take part in this Debate not because I have any special knowledge of the housing problem or because I can throw any special rays of light upon the subject; indeed, in this respect I am only too conscious of my own shortcomings. I feel very similar to a former Member of Parliament for Birmingham who was elected to the House in 1876, and after having sat silent in the. Chamber for three months rose to make his maiden speech. I refer to Mr. Joseph Chamberlain. In that speech, it is recorded in HANSARD, he said: he had so recently come into the House that he felt reluctant to trespass on its time, being of the opinion he should best show his respect to the Assembly he was so proud to enter by refraining from, addressing it while inexperienced in its forms and practices, but the question under discussion was one in which he was deeply interested. I feel similarly today. I desire to submit to the House some evidence from   the constituency which I have the honour to represent. The constituency of Lady-wood will no doubt bring memories to hon. and right hon. Gentlemen because during the past 20 years it has been represented by two Cabinet Ministers, one of whom rose to the rank of Prime Minister. I can well remember that when the late Mr. Neville Chamberlain was representing the constituency 18 years ago, I became councillor for a ward in the constituency, and at that time I could not contemplate worse conditions of overcrowding, but today I have to admit with some anxiety, that the position is infinitely more serious than anything it was then possible to contemplate. As far as Birmingham is concerned, the problem may be divided into two parts. In the first place, there are at the present time 30,000 people residing in rooms, most of them being ex-Service-men waiting for houses; and to provide that number of people with houses in Birmingham will mean that we shall have to construct within our city buildings equivalent to a town the size of Wolverhampton. The second problem is the one to which I want specially to refer, and concerning which I want to make a special appeal to the Minister. It is the problem of the very large number of houses in Birmingham which are at present in a state of disrepair. I have in my possession a report, published in the ""Birmingham Press"" in which the public works committee of the city is bringing before the City Council a redevelopment scheme to deal with 26,183 houses. We are told in this report that it is estimated that, throughout the city, there are 50,000 houses of such a standard that they can be condemned under the 1936 Housing Act. When I heard the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Croydon North (Mr. Willink) talking about the financial considerations, I could not but feel that thousands of my fellow citizens in Birmingham are not so much concerned about what it costs to build a house. This assembly did not argue so much during the war about what it cost to build a bomber, or an aerodrome, and these people having given of their best during years of war, now ask for the assistance of this House, without any financial discourse about how much it will cost for one type of house against another particular type. I make a special appeal for the occupants of these houses, and I would bring three examples from my constituency to the notice of the House. In regard to the first example, I put a Question to the Minister of Health a few weeks ago about a case in Ladywood where there were 36 persons and there was only one lavatory available. The Minister's reply to me on that occasion was that it was a question of labour and materials, and that the corporation were doing their best. I welcome this Bill because it is giving power to the Government to deal with the question of materials, and it is on that question that I want specially to appeal to the Minister—that a fair share of labour and materials should be devoted to these very unhealthy houses, because we cannot wait until new houses are built. As regards the second example which I wish to put before the House, I would read part of a letter I received a few days ago, from a war widow. She says: My husband died and was buried at Munster in Germany after five years' service in the Army. I have five children, and we have only one room downstairs and one room up. The attic floor has fallen in and I am fed up telling the landlord. We all sleep in one room, three boys aged 12, 9 and 7 years, a girl aged 5 and baby 2 ½. Is it not reasonable to expect that a family like that should have the conditions made at least tolerable when the bread winner has paid the supreme sacrifice in the war? For the third example, I quote another letter. A lady wrote to me a few days ago in these terms: I am shortly going into a sanatorium as I have got tuberculosis in one lung. Before I went away, I thought I would write and ask you if you could help me to get a house. The one I am living in is so badly in need of repair and is so damp that more often than not I stay downstairs because the bedclothes are too damp to get into. I also have two little boys who have to share the same bedroom as my husband and myself as the other room is not fit to put them in. Please help me to get out of this place. I am 25 years of age and I do not want to die yet, but if I have to live here when I come out of the sanatorium I know I shall be back in there again before very long. My mother died since coming to live here with tuberculosis, so you can understand that I do not want the same thing to happen to my little boys that has happened to my mother and myself. The house we are in is a terrace house which has one room downstairs and two small rooms upstairs. The landlord will not repair them, as they have been condemned for six. years.   With characteristic humility, she concludes her letter by saying: 1 must apologise for taking up your time, but I am getting desperate and hope you can help me. Those, I submit, are the words of a real English lady, whose patience and fortitude must commend themselves to every hon. Member of this House. This is a human document, an appeal through an elected representative to this, the highest court in the land Such are the conditions in modern Birmingham. The cases which I have outlined are not isolated cases. I should not feel so distressed if they were isolated cases. But, added to this great burden, we have had in Birmingham the results of the air raids. Strewn right across the city from end to end we see heaps of debris and brickbats, harbouring rats and vermin to a terrifying degree—I say that with a good deal of personal experience—to a terrifying degree, hitherto unknown in the history of our city. I would submit that, in my judgment, the management of unhealthy property ought to be taken out of the hands of private enterprise. In fact, when I consider the terrible consequences of the atomic bomb which fell upon the town of Hiroshima, I sometimes think of areas such as I have seen in Birmingham, that it would serve a very useful purpose if we were to evacuate all the people from this area, place an atomic bomb in the centre, and flatten it completely. I think we could then coin a new word, ""Hiroshimation,"" which would be more important than ""nationalisation,"" so far as this unhealthy property is concerned. The Minister of Health 'has a great opportunity of giving practical expression to the revolutionary fervour which has characterised his activities in the past. I have listened to him with very great interest at Labour Party Conferences at which he has, sometimes, been referred to as ""enjoying his annual day out."" He has now a very great responsibility, and, to my right hon. and hon. Friends on the Government Front Bench, I would say that ours in a tremendous responsibility. This Government will stand or fall as a Government, not by what they do about demobilisation, or by what they do about the atomic bomb, but by the power and drive that they put into this great housing programme. One other word concerning our ability to provide employment  for our people. Surely this country will never tolerate unemployment for long, when people are in need of houses to this extent. Having spoken to my hon. Friends on the Front Bench, I would say to right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite, that I come here as a new hon. Member, in the place of one of their former colleagues. I represent the ordinary people of one of the wealthiest cities in the world, a city whose proud boast it has been that it is the city of a thousand trades. In war, the city has produced munitions, machines, aeroplanes and guns, and, in time of peace, it turns its hands to the great crafts, to art and culture; yet, in this city of a thousand trades, thousands of men and women who have helped to create this great wealth are stabled worse than animals. That is the fact which I wanted to bring to the notice of this Assembly. Our brothers and sisters are herded together in this manner, which I can only describe in the words used by William Morris in referring to the slums of London. He said: Places of torture for innocent men and women, or worse, stews for rearing and breeding men and women in such degradation that that torture would seem to them mere ordinary and natural life—places whore crimes of class murder are committed. We want to see houses going up as quickly as the munition factories went up during the war, as speedily as the aerodromes were built. I would say to all hon. Members of this House that there is something very significant in the Election figures. Britain is awake, demanding social justice, and, in welcoming this Bill, which gives the Minister and the Government the power to move forward in a great drive to solve this problem, I say that no rings, no combines and no vested interest must be allowed to block the way. The people have made up their minds. In this country, they are determined that something shall be done to solve this great problem. They have, as it were, become awakened, at the call of the great poet, Shelley, who called upon— Men of England, heirs of glory, Heroes of unwritten story, Nurslings of one mighty Mother, Hopes of her and one another; Rise like lions after slumber In unvanquishable number, Shake your chains to earth like dew Which in sleep had fallen on you Ye are many—they are few.   I ask this House to take up this Bill, to hold it as a torch and to carry it forward in helping to solve one of the greatest of all human tasks—the provision of homes for our people.
