gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for your having called on me to speak in this very important debate. It is true that it is a pleasure to follow the speech of a person who is so well respected as the right hon. Member for Fulham (Mr. Stewart). It is a great privilege to be able to speak in the House representing the constituents of Ilford, North who have elected me to serve them here. This being my maiden speech, I therefore ask for the indulgence of the House. I should like to say something about the House of Commons. When one first comes here one is extremely conscious of the heritage, history and background and of what the House of Commons and the Mother of Parliaments have meant to the British people. It has also given the world, over the years, a great sense of democracy. As a result of this, I think that this country can be rightly proud of many of the achievements that it has given the free world. I pay tribute to my predecessor, Mrs. Millie Miller. It was unfortunate and untimely that her death should come in the way that it did. I suppose that it is always a politician's ambition to win an important by-election, but I do not think that it is any politician's ambition to have to win it through the sad and untimely death of somebody who died many years before she should have done. When I say that, I know that I speak for many people in Ilford, North who received a lot of help from my predecessor. I shall use my best endeavours to represent them as well and in the same way as they were represented by her. There are matters that concern my constituents. One should not be controversial in one's maiden speech, and I shall do my best, because of the privilege of the House, to keep to that precept. However, there are matters which I think it would be wrong not to explain to the  House and which are giving my constituents some concern. Most of them revolve around the economy and the debate that we are having today on the Budget. I remember during a by-election meeting a man in his early twenties. He was a skilled engineer in electronics. This young man was very concerned at the fact that not many other young men were coming into skilled industries. I asked him why this was so, and he told me that he felt that there was no longer any incentive. He said that there were no pay differentials. This question has been discussed in the debate. There is also concern not only among skilled workers but among middle management and others about the size of taxation today. What gives me the greatest worry and concern is the fact that many of my generation and the generation following mine, great scientific and technical young people, have gone abroad rather than stay in this country. That is tragic for our nation, because those young people are our very future. Our very future is concerned with how and what will resolve our economic difficulties. People are concerned about unemployment. We have two large firms in North Ilford—Plessey and Thorn—which are very concerned about the new clauses to Government contracts which might ultimately lead to unemployment if those contracts were lost through wage rises given by sub-contractors over which they had little control. There is concern also among smaller business men. I am grateful for the Chancellor of the Exchequer's announcement of help to small business men, but I wonder whether, given the high rate of inflation that we have seen in the last three or four years, this will be sufficient to prevent more firms going into liquidation. We must remember that it is the small firms that still employ the largest number of people in our community and society today. This leads me to the last two points that I want to make about my constituents' concerns. Widows have received a little help, but they will need a lot more help if we are to get things going in the right direction for them. People today, in spite of what is said by the media or by anybody else, are deeply concerned   about their future and the future of their families We must try to create a new spirit of adventure, a spirit that induces people to be successful. I pledge myself to serve to the best of my abilities the constituents of Ilford, North who elected me, and I look forward to serving the House of Commons.
