gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have no wish to repeat some of the words of the hon. Lady the Member for Birmingham, Edgbaston (Mrs. Knight), but on this occasion I am making my maiden speech and, as I come from a constituency with more small firms than any other constituency in the country, it might be right and proper to make a maiden contribution. I am told that a maiden speech should be non-controversial. I hope that the House will afford me some indulgence, but it is difficult to fulfil that requirement and to keep faith with those on the parliamentary register at Ladywood, and the thousands of small firms not entitled to parliamentary franchise, in putting to the House certain points they would clearly expect their elected Member to put. Small businesses, which abound in Ladywood, and the small income families —the bulk of Ladywood electors are in that category—have a common problem. It is the struggle to survive, the weekly dilemma of how to make both ends meet. I wonder whether the hon. Member for Bromsgrove (Mr. Dance), who made a recent reference to the small number of electors in Ladywood, realised before he spoke that there are more non-refund S.E.T. sufferers among small businesses in Ladywood than in his constituency and in Meriden, Dudley and Birmingham, Northfield constituencies put together. Ladywood has frequently been on the lips of many hon. Members during recent  debates and a great deal has been said with which I agree about the comparatively small number of electors. What has not been said, and what needs to be emphasised, and nowhere more appropriately than in this debate, is that Lady-wood has more small businesses within its sprawling confines throughout central Birmingham than some of the giant Midland constituencies put together. We have 1,000 and more small businesses which have no vote at parliamentary elections. They are entitled to look to their M.P. to represent in this House the very many problems they face. Almost every Ladywocd family works inside a small business and almost every Ladywood family lives in a council-owned dwelling. They are low and modest income families. It is appropriate to refer to this because of the relationship between the working-class electors and the small businesses surrounding them and upon which —a point worth repetition—they are forced to rely for their employment. To remove the popular misconception in the House in recent debates, it should be said that, of Ladywood's 18,500 electors, about 15,000 live in council-owned dwellings. These are low and modest income families, working inside small businesses and having to pay high rents and high heating costs which, in many cases, absorb the first £7 10s. of their limited net incomes weekly. It is fair to say that the people of Ladywood, like millions more throughout the country, have to live within these limits of low and modest incomes and that they feel particularly resentful of the higher living costs forced upon them in recent years in such ways, for example, as the ever-increasing rents—in Birmingham there have been five direct and indirect rent increases in three years—and in so many other ways which affect the cost of living generally. The most interesting feature of the recent by-election, noticeable not only within the ranks of the electors who voted but within the ranks of the about 1,500 small businesses within Ladywood, was the number of those electors and small businessmen who still remember with great bitterness the 16 per cent. increase in electricity charges which the Government allowed to be imposed upon their   very limited turnover in October, 1967. While allowing these excessive increases in the cost of living, the Government had provided no means for the small wage families to increase their incomes. These families, not unnaturally, look to their employers, often small businesses, to help them by substantial wage increases. Yet the same kind of increases to which the small wage families have been subjected in recent years have been applied, often in even greater measure, to the struggling small businesses which—particularly these which, because of redevelopment, have had to find new sites and new premises—have had to bear increasing costs—heavy electricity and heating charges, general service charges and the other costs which small businesses have to struggle to meet. I can speak somewhat authoritatively on this subject as one who has headed two small businesses over the past 30 years. I have known and still know the great struggle which a small business has to keep alive. The difficulty has been accentuated by successive actions by the present and preceding Governments. Small businesses have had to struggle against increasing burdens which has fallen on that section of the business world least able to meet it. For small businesses and for small income families the struggle is not just to progress, but to survive. In Ladywood, I am frequently asked by families who have waited endless years to enter their lovely, but costly, new homes to help them to get back to the lower-rented substandard dwellings, sometimes hovels, in which they formerly lived. Many small income families are employed by small businesses which find it impossible to pay substantial wage increases and which often face bankruptcy. The trend for small businesses bears a striking similarity to the increasingly unhappy trend of small income families, many of whom are their employees. Existing heavy financial burdens are driving many small businesses to the verge of bankruptcy. Birmingham has a record rate of bankruptcies and many of the firms concerned are small businesses, and the trend is continuing to rise. I have recently been concerned with the example of one of the most thriving  small businesses which it has been my lot to meet in my constituency. This week, it had to consider cancelling an order for more than 2,000 tons of Corten A steel because of a recent gigantic increase which the Government allowed and which amounted to about 28½ per cent. The loss of the order would mean that an important dollar-earning market would be lost to the country and that the livelihood of a small but important number of people would be endangered because their employment would cease. I hope that the Government will take a fresh and urgent look at the growing problem of small businesses, which would directly help millions of modest, small income families whose livelihoods are closely linked to the prosperity of the average small business. Small businessmen who are displaced by redevelopment should receive much more financial assistance to meet the full cost of reinstatement and should continue to get additional financial help to meet the heavily increasing overheads during the initial years of reinstatement. This is the beginning of the path to bankruptcy for many small busineses, as is proved by the number of small firms who, after redevelopment in the industrial Midlands, have gone to the wall. Equally, it should be recognised that the modest income worker within the small business firm forms a large part of the electorate. To continue squeezing him or her by continually squeezing the small business by which he or she is invariably employed is a policy which, if it continues, the present Government may have good cause to regret when the ultimate confrontation with the people takes place. The recent by-election in Ladywood gives emphasis to this grave warning. I hope that the Government will take heed before it is too late for many small businesses. For many, it is already too late. I hope that, early in the new Session, the Government will allow time for a full debate on the growing problems confronting so many small businesses, and will introduce early measures to assist them.
