gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very pleased that today we can bid welcome to the Minister of Technology. I am very pleased indeed that he is here with us. One of my reasons is that he may be able to help me with my particular problem. Having been unable to find the elusive maiden speech precipitator, although I found that it ensured that we had a massive presentation of eight maidens in one day, and that there was a maiden speech made within 20 minutes of the start of the debate on the Address in reply to the Gracious Speech, I decided to defer my opportunity and to make my maiden in the normal process. Even so, today I have some misgivings, having sought advice of several hon. Members on how to deal with a maiden. You can rest assured, Mr. Speaker, that the suggestions varied. The presentation of a maiden speech would appear to be the most controversial issue that I have heard in the House. I would quote some of the advice given me by several hon. Members. No names, no Whip drill. First, ""Get it over quick"". Next, ""Take your time with it"". Then, ""Do not use long words"". ""Use a few technical phrases"". ""Read it"", and ""Do not read it"". ""Be yourself, but portray a good image"".   ""Stand up, speak up, and shut up"". No doubt hon. Members today will enjoy this all the better when it is all over. I hope to accept all this good advice. No doubt it will have been guessed by now that I am a Yorkshireman, having the honour to represent a Yorkshire constituency, Wakefield, which, from 1932 to 1954, was represented by a dedicated Socialist, Arthur Greenwood. Wakefield loved him. Today his son is a very worthy Minister. From 1954 to 1964 Wakefield was well represented by Arthur Creech Jones who followed in Arthur Greenwood's place. I have had a glowing feeling because of the tributes which were paid to him during a recent debate by several hon. Members from each side of the House He unfortunately retired from this scene only one month prior to his passing. He served, faithfully and conscientiously, Wakefield—this country, and, indeed, the world. Wakefield people were proud to have him representing them in this House. My constituency comprises the city and county borough of Wakefield, a very progressive, industrious and enlightened community with a great historical background. It is at present very concerned at possible demotion to non-county borough and second-tier status, despite its progress and efficiency in the services which it administers, particularly in housing, health and welfare. Incidentally, I may say that it has one of the finest central town development improvements in the North. I hope that the Local Government Boundary Commission will give the deepest consideration to this problem and will help Wakefield to retain its all-purpose status. The rest of my constituency consists of Royston urban district, Horbury urban, and several equally important districts of Wakefield rural district council. I am proud to be their representative, following two such worthy predecessors. Now I wish to expound a little on this Bill. I had had some 15 years in local government and county administration which has taught me that the formulation of a Bill and even of an Act does not always have the desired effect. I do hope that on this occasion what we are intending with this and  through regional economic councils does come to fruition. I am aware that the famous Richard Whittington and his cat in the thirteenth century knew that they were on to a good thing in leaving the West Country and seeking their fortune in the London area. The over-development of offices, industry, housing, with the consequential choking up of the roads and the choking up of the City, was going on even then. I am afraid that it will continue to do so till greater controls and better legislation are made to operate. Far too many offices are being built in the London area. Excess development is going on without consideration of the consequential effects in other parts of the country. A combination of control, and planning and economic reasoning, can eventually bring about a more balanced state of industry throughout the country. The Labour Government may be accused of imposing control, but is it not better to control one's destiny, the destiny of the nation, the destiny of the people, and to indicate one's goal, than leave it as a matter of a mad free-for-all scramble, a scramble which can only divide the nation, the North from the South, the East from the West? Effective legislation is long overdue. Let us give it the teeth it requires. I feel that through this Bill we shall achieve our object. The denuding of the North and the overflowing of the South has brought problems to both areas—unemployment, over-employment, disproportion in industry and housing, a high cost of living, squalid living conditions, exploitation of the workers, exorbitant rents, inflated prices for land and housing, dereliction, desolation, and despair and even delinquency. Scientific planning and control can give an equitably distributed opportunity in housing, office building, industrial development, in growth industries, in employment and education and in social standards. Industry in the West Riding of Yorkshire requires diversity. The contraction of the old basic industries must be counteracted by the development of new growth industries. At present in Yorkshire—this is true—we prefer to breathe and swallow the grit emitted from a coal-fired power station than to bite the dust   by high unemployment in areas which have already suffered in the 'thirties. These areas have already made a contribution both in industry and manpower for the benefit of this nation—the workers in the coal mining industry, predominantly. The nationalised electricity supply industry, of which I was a member, are pleased that they can go to the aid of fellow workers—and we can now use coal by wire. Let us, please, also remember that the heavy basic industries such as those in Yorkshire have to start from scratch. We cannot convert a disused coal mine to the manufacture of nylon stockings or for the production of transistor radios or computers. Nor can we expect a man who has given his life to the use of pick and shovel immediately to change over to the fine and delicate crafts. The nation owes them the opportunity to be retained and retrained. For years we in the North have solved our problems of unemployment by migration, as has often been said in this House, but let us remember that the migration has always begun with the young and fit, who get the opportunity to go South: ""Go South, young man, go South."" This process gives the aged the opportunity to view derelict mills, disused mines, and the collapse of communities to which the older folk have themselves contributed their lifeblood. I should like to quote from the Yorkshire Evening Post of 29th January. On page 9 there is a headline ""Another mill to close"". On the same date there are reported some observations by the West Riding Planning Officer, Mr. L. N. Frazer, who states of an application by a certain town for a by-pass road that it is an area which is common in Yorkshire in having a static or falling population, which means that the population is drifting to the South. Since such people were the younger and active type, the problem of the ageing town was accentuated and the county council would have to plan to help small authorities affected in this way as far as possible. A great task indeed, and this was said only three days ago. For many years I served on the Federation of Industrial Development Associations, and for many years those associations emphasised the need to obtain the opinions of local authorities, because this was the medium by which  local authority industrial problems were collated—problems which were ignored by higher authority because it was thought that they were not of national importance. But the threat of contraction, the lack of diversity, an insufficient percentage of new growth industries, and the migration of skills, are national responsibilities. A research survey to which I could refer states that the electronics section of the engineering industry, employing 8·6 per cent. of the labour force of the West Riding, is a growth industry. This is indeed entirely wrong, because in that same medium we have 33¼ per cent. of the declining industries compared with 20 per cent. of declining industries on average in the country. We have a predominance of the declining industries, and only a small percentage of growth industries in Yorkshire. If the new regional boards require intimate local knowledge they could contact the Industrial Development Associations. They could contact the local authorities. They could certainly contact the ones which are affected, and there are many in Yorkshire. I am certain that the problems of these people have been accentuated by past legislation. Even the Local Government Act and the carrot and stick distribution Act did not solve the problem. These Acts did not solve any problems for Yorkshire. They just accentuated those which existed. I hope that the control provided for in the Bill will prove to be the solution to the problem. Let us fervently hope that this Government can solve this outdated and outmoded wastage of communities, potentials, skills and desires. Let us provide a new opportunity for their energy. I thank the House for the kind attention paid to my speech. I sincerely hope that I have not transgressed. I always hope to be constitutional. I have kept strictly to my speech. The House can rest assured that, in the near future, when I throw these notes away, the issues will be more controversial, and the blood will hot up. I thank the House for listening to me.
