gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I gather, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, that it is somewhat unusual for a new Member of the House to ask for the indulgence of the House on an Adjournment debate, but it so happens that a matter of the gravest concern to many of my constituents has arisen, and, therefore, I feel it my duty to take this opportunity of airing the matter here tonight. Before doing so, I would like to say what a great honour I feel it is to succeed as Member for Chichester a man who has now been transported to another place and who served this House faithfully for sixteen years. I say straight away that I entirely approve of the principal of open prisons, and it is only after very much consideration that I have to come to the conclusion that I cannot approve of the Prison Commissioners' scheme to introduce an open prison at Ford, in my constituency. In considering this matter, I took the opportunity of visiting an open prison on the Isle of Sheppey, and what an excellent place it is. I enjoyed my visit very much and I thank the Prison Commissioners for their courtesy in showing me round that open prison. However, Sheppey is an island and there is only one route to the mainland, which makes it an ideal place. But even at Sheppey, where there is little chance of abscondence, 33 people absconded last year, although that was a bad year and I understand that the average is 2 per cent. I feel I must disprove of the attempt of the Prison Commissioners to make an open prison at Ford for three reasons. One is because it would so seriously affect the amenities of the district. The second is because it would so seriously affect the livelihood of many of my constituents. The third is because it would give so many opportunities and temptations for the prisoners themselves to escape. First, I will say something about the effect on the amenities of the district. It is my pleasure to represent the most delightful constituency in the United Kingdom. On our northern boundary we have what is now universally called ""glorious Goodwood"" and on our southern boundary we have stretches of the finest sands on the South Coast. Now, in the middle, the Prison Commissioners wish to put an open prison. Many families come to the South Coast, many young children come every year to enjoy the bathing facilities, and parents will think twice about bringing their families to this holiday spot if they know that there is an open prison a short distance away. Also, we have a large residential area of thousands of elderly people who have chosen to spend the evening of their life in this spot, which will be only a few miles away from this open prison. I do not assume that the prisoners will harm these old people, but whatever we' say, whatever explanations we give them, whatever figures we produce, there is no doubt that there will be fear in their minds. My second point is that this will seriously affect the livelihood of so many of my constituents. We have a holiday trade which is an important consideration in that area. Of course, people will be reluctant to come to that area with their families knowing that there is an open prison within a few miles. The hotel, restaurant and caravan industries are bound to be affected. We have many large caravan sites and holiday camps within a few miles of the proposed open prison. A large holiday camp is to be built next year on the Ford side of Bognor Regis. There are already signs of the values of the properties in the locality declining considerably. There is an excellent, old-established girls' school right on the borders, and there are also several boys' schools in the locality. I do not suggest that the prisoners would necessarily interfere with the girls or boys, but I ask all hon. Members who have children whether they would like to send their daughters to a school if they knew that the school was situated within half a mile of an open prison. In our district are many men who go to work in the large industrial areas around Portsmouth and other industrial   towns, and they have told me that they would be horrified to think that they would have to go away to work and leave their wives and children within a few miles of an open prison. It may be that these fears are unfounded, but whatever we do or say, those fears are very real, and I am sure that it is right that we should take them into consideration. Finally, there is the question of the many opportunities and temptations for the prisoners in an open prison to escape from Ford. There is a public road which goes right through the middle of the proposed site. I do not know—perhaps my hon. and learned Friend the Joint Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department could tell me—whether there are any other open prisons with a public road passing through the middle. I understand that there is one with a road running alongside, but in this case there is a public road right through the middle of the proposed site and, of course, my constituents are afraid that if the Prison Commissioners get this site the first thing they will want to do will be to close the public road. There is a bus service every quarter of an hour only a few hundred yards away from the proposed site, and there is a railway also a few hundred yards away. On the other side, only a few yards away, there is a river with plenty of small boats. In fact, I can honestly say that if prisoners wished to abscond they would have an opportunity to do so by train, or by road, or by boat. In addition, there is a caravan site not far away. What an opportunity, if anyone should wish to abscond, to have an accomplice in the caravan site, with a change of clothing and all the other necessities, only a few hundred yards away. I know that it is the custom that maiden speeches should be brief, and I know that there are other hon. Members who wish to speak, but I should like to ask my hon. and learned Friend whether I could have an assurance that there will be a full public inquiry before the Prison Commissioners take any action in connection with their proposed plans; and, secondly, whether compensation would be paid to the many people whose livelihood would be affected if there were an open prison situated at Ford. I am daily receiving numbers of letters opposing the scheme. I have received letters from the Chichester Rural District Council, the Bognor Regis Urban District Council, parish councils, the Felpham Association of Ratepayers, and the Bognor Regis Hotel and Restaurant Association, and many personal letters. The West Sussex County Council has not yet announced its decision, but I know that the local representative is wholeheartedly against the scheme. In my large post-bag I have not had one letter approving of the Prison Commissioners' proposals for Ford. Surely there are more suitable sites in the country. I should like to assure my hon. and learned Friend that I am not being parochial-minded about the matter. I do not have an un-Christian attitude towards the treatment of prisoners. I approve of the principle of open prisons and would welcome an open prison in my constituency if I could have an assurance, first that it did not so seriously affect the amenities of the district; secondly, that it did not so seriously affect the livelihood of so many of Her Majesty's loyal subjects; and, thirdly, that it did not give so many opportunities and temptations for prisoners to escape. I can honestly say that I consider that Ford is not such a place.
