gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
A maiden speech is always an occasion of great fear to the Member who is making it. We were told the other day that Members on this side produce synthetic fury; the fear I suffer from at the present time is very real and by no means synthetic. Indeed, there are three fears—the first is that I shall speak too long; the second is that I shall get well off the point; thirdly, that when I sit down I shall have said not one of the things I intended to say. I had the honour during this war to serve under the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he was Minister of Economic Warfare. Then his task was the destruction of the economy of enemy countries, the breaking up in every way of the trade and industries, of their whole economic structure, and we all know that he made a great success of it. On the good old principle of the successful poacher being selected for gamekeeper, that is possibly the reason why he is now   Chancellor of the Exchequer, and we look upon him as the great support and buttress of our trades and industries in this country I listened, as all new Members must have listened to their first Budget, with great care and also with astonishment at the ease and clarity with which a complicated case could be placed before this Committee by those with Parliamentary experience. I felt how very much the ""new boy"" has to learn before he can arrive at the point where he can present even the modest points of criticism he wishes to put over with clarity and vigour. I feel certain that, taking it by and large, the Budget which we have had presented to us must be acceptable in the main to everybody in the country. I have the honour to represent a working man's industrial constituency, Bury, in Lancashire which, for reasons I have not been able to fathom, abstained from the midsummer madness that overtook the rest of the country in early July. I feel that in that constituency—which has an unexcelled record for savings and for war effort—this Budget will be looked through carefully and approved by practically everybody. Naturally there will be questions raised, and my already considerable mail will be increased. There was one thing absent from the Budget, however, I felt and that was charity. We are told in matters of charity that we must not let our right hand know what our left hand is doing. There is one thing about the Chancellor, however, which is absolutely certain—his right hand knows full well what his left hand is doing. When he presented us yesterday with a gift, which, at first sight, looked to be appetising and glittering, with a few seconds his left hand shot forward and took it away from us, leaving us rather worse off than when he started. I have only known one other individual who could do that with the same adroitness, ease, and grace and he must be known to a good many Members of this Committee who have travelled in the Middle East or in the East. He lives at Port Said and is known under the curious name of"" Gully-Gully."" This Budget is a Budget of continuity; it was the natural follower-on of all the war Budgets that have gone before, and they were an admirable series of realistic  documents showing that the people of this country, when the position was put clearly and fairly before them, were capable and willing of every sacrifice. This Budget was, therefore, a commonsense follower-on from the previous one, but it has certain very definite differences and I would like to deal with one or two of them. On the question of Income Tax and Surtax, I have listened with interest to the sometimes hidden and sometimes open gibes that have been passed at the taxpayer and at the Surtax-payer. I have often submitted in the House without protest, to being promoted from an ordinary business man to a robber in the city. When praise is being given, as it is, most deservedly and unstintingly, to the Savings Movement and to the savers of the country equal praise is due to the Income Tax and Surtax payer. On the whole they are the admiration and envy of every other country, and I would like to give one proof of that. Many years ago, just before the last war, I happened to see the dossier of an upright citizen of Paris who was at police headquarters. On the debit side there were these words: Citoyen extraordinaire paye ses impots, which meant that he was an extraordinary citizen, who paid his tax. Here, the record of our taxpayers is quite the opposite. There is less tax evasion and more willingness to meet the burdens of expenditure than anywhere else in the world. As an Income Tax and Surtax payer I do not in the least object to what the Chancellor proposed yesterday, with one proviso, which is that I want to see that I am getting good value for my money. I do not want to see money frittered away and wasted unnecessarily. The Chancellor objected very much to the use of the phrase, ""Geddes Axe."" An axe is used primarily to behead people, and when you behead them then they are no longer meat for the Chancellor. I propose a more up-to-date weapon than that. We on this side are often accused of not being willing or able to learn, but I suggest that on this occasion we can learn. The Chancellor's colleague, the President of the Board of Trade—whose efforts to take under the wing of his Ministry so many other functions prove that he has, at any rate, rather inflationist tendencies—has recently produced what he calls working   parties. The working party and the constitution of it has caused a certain amount of uneasiness in Lancashire and other places, but it certainly is a modern and up-to-date method by which the Government can overhaul industries and trades, and see whether they are functioning properly and helping the national effort. I think it would be a good thing if trade and industry and the taxpayers were to be allowed to form their own working parties for the overhaul of Ministries. That, I think, would be only fair. They would certainly have to start on the Chancellor's own Department, because I believe that too much Treasury control is one of the things that we must break down. I am by no means against control; we all know how necessary it is in many ways, but those who have sat on Government committees know what happens. There will be a meeting, at which four or five Ministries are represented. There is only one predictable thing about such a committee, and that is that it will sit again. Towards the end of the meeting, when they are about to come to a conclusion a still, small, voice, more powerful than that of conscience itself, the voice of the Treasury official, will say, ""I think this is a matter which I should refer to the Treasury because the public interest requires…""and so he goes on. We all know that speech. The matter is referred back to the Treasury, and in the end the forward looking policy which was being put forward is very often brought to nought. In the overhaul which has been promised by the Chancellor to save the maximum amount of taxpayers' money, and money which could be expended on social security and other purposes, we must see that too much Treasury control is not allowed. On the question of controls, I believe we are suffering at the present time from an over correction of an agreed evil. The days when we had no controls certainly brought great harm in their train, but today we have swung too far in the other direction. One of the dangers is that other countries with fewer economic systems are going in the other direction. Fairly soon, we shall be arriving at the epoch when the cold, keen winds of competition will be blowing round us again and the zephyrs of international agreement and control will be lessened. There is already every sign of it. During the Recess I spent about a  fortnight in America, and the first headline I saw in a newspaper there read, ""All curbs off by February."" The American word, ""curb,"" for control has an implication which was not lost on some of us. I do not say that in this country, where we have not the same economy of surplus and plenty as they have in America, that is in any way possible, but they are going to be competitors throughout the world. If we believe that we in our economic sphere can exercise control, and not meet competition which will knock it out of its stride, then we are living in a fools' paradise. The chances of arriving at any good international system in trade, industry and commerce over the next few years cannot be regarded very optimistically. Whether on civil aviation or on matters of higher policy, with the best will in the world—and this is in existence between such Allies as America's and ours—it will be difficult to prevent those economies from taking divergent paths when, in Kipling's words, ""The ties of common funk,"" are removed. That does not mean that there is enmity, but it does mean that there can be and will be commercial rivalry. When I was in China I saw from a distance how these different economies are working, and I believe that too great a belief in the result of our control systems, as they have been put before us, is very dangerous. I am not certain that the patron saint of the Government is not King Canute. You will remember that King Canute, surrounded, as are the Government, by a certain number of flatterers, was persuaded that he controlled the tides. He got his feet wet. The Government start with the advantage that a great many of their ideas are ""wet"" before they begin and we greatly fear that the strong irresistible tide of economic truth and forces will drown them, which will be a matter of infinite regret to everybody on this side of the House. There is another point to which I would like to refer. Invisible exports are hardly ever mentioned when the word, ""export,"" is used. We are obviously in a period when this country will be hard put to compete in the world by the export of goods. We have heard much of the difficulties in getting our own machinery going again. There is no harm in admitting it; it is due to the fact that our   country made a total war effort from the first day of the war to the last. We are still paying for it now and we shall have to continue to pay for it. What we can do, however, is to increase, and keep an eye on, our invisible exports. They are largely connected with the fact that this country has been for many years the centre of the world's confidence in shipping, insurance, storage, banking and open markets dealing with commodities. I believe, with the sacrifices we have made, of our immense revenue, and, above all, our good standing, we can build up our export in goods later; I plead with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, therefore, to keep an eye on those who will try, in due course, to sacrifice one of the greatest assets which we have. In a balance sheet there is very often the word ""goodwill,"" and it is highly valued. It is hard to describe it. It is often the greatest asset in any business, and, over many centuries, goodwill has been built up in this country, and should not be lightly thrown away. The word ""inflation"" appears frequently in this Debate and in others, and I would very much like to have a real definition of it. I have seen it in many countries. I have even seen what must be a joy to any economist, ""inflation within a vacuum."" In China there was no contact with the outside world, and yet enormous inflation took place. There is a great deal of mistaken thought and lack of knowledge on the difference between inflation and depreciation due to visible and preventible causes. There is never in the public eye the fear of inflation if one thing is present: Any inflation due to honourable causes, such as ours, cannot harm a country badly so long as the people of the country themselves retain their faith in their own currency. In this country, I believe, it is the desire of everybody to defend and continue their belief in the currency of this country, because without that, all our plans must come to naught. There is one role which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has to play which is of great importance. He is the curator of the purse of the country—of the public purse. Occasionally that function cuts across an even higher one—that of the curator of public honour. Far too often on the question of claims by members of the public against Government Departments there is a sharpness in deal-  ing, an unwillingness to take the part of equity, a willingness to hide behind a small legal point that I would like to condemn. I believe that more important than anything else is the care of the public honour, and it must take precedence of the public purse. Very often the most humble members of communities are not in a position to know how to pursue their claim. They are bewildered by the difficulties, and even when it is explained to them they often do not understand it fully. I earnestly request the Chancellor of the Exchequer to see that in all these things he puts equity above law and reasonable generosity to those who have suffered during the war above any attempt to save what in the aggregate is little compared with the size of Budgets nowadays. This Debate, I think, will go down to history as the ""amber light"" Debate. We on this side of the Committee are not certain whether it is not rather like a good deal of the legislation that has been put forward: it looks perfectly all right on the surface, but it has a catch in it somewhere, whether it is the Bank of England Bill with one odd Clause, the extension of control powers from two years to five with no adequate explanation. It is certainly a good Budget on its own merits, but taken against the background of other legislation it is, I think, the ""amber light."" We shall not know until April whether it is turning to red or turning to green. Until then I think we must give it a fair trial and do everything in our power to persuade our constituents that it should be respected as an honest and admirable effort to get out of the difficulties of war-time finance into the possibly equally difficult but different period of peace-time finance. During the war this country only started to do well when the three Services worked together in ""combined ops."" When the Services worked in water-tight compartments, victories were small and costly. I believed that lesson of ""combined ops"" must be brought into trade and industry in this country. Capital, labour and management must work together—the cement that will hold them together is finance, and I feel that in the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the lead which he has given us we certainly have a workman who is doing his best in the public interest.
