gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In this, my maiden speech, may I first offer my congratulations to the hon. Member for Heston and Isleworth (Mr. Hayhoe) on his maiden speech. The House will agree that it was a very competent, well-delivered and thoughtful speech. The hon. Member will not be surprised to hear that I disagree with practically everything that he said. Before embarking upon my main theme I want to pay a brief but sincere tribute to my illustrious predecessor, Philip Noel-Baker. He first entered the House in 1929 as the Member for Coventry and stayed here in that capacity until 1931. In 1936 he was elected as the Member for Derby and in 1950 he became the Member for Derby, South and represented the people of Derby until the General Election this year, a remarkable record. Philip Noel-Baker served the House with distinction both as a Minister and as a back bencher. He will probably be remembered best for his sterling work for disarmament and world peace. This was recognised in 1959 by the award of the Nobel Peace Prize, again a remarkable achievement. The House will wish to know that Philip Noel-Baker celebrated his 81st birthday recently and still continues his travels. Perhaps I should declare an interest and tell the House that I am a national officer of the Transport Salaried Staffs Association and the treasurer of the National Federation of Professional Workers. This so-called Consultative Document came into being in early October. Within days the Secretary of State told the Tory Party conference that the Government were quite prepared to talk to people about the document but that the main pillars of it would remain and that there would be no change to them. I suggest that this was a mockery of consultation. I have always understood that management—in this case the Government—prepares a document and then circularises it to all concerned. It is considered. The parties sit down together, discuss it, and hammer out a policy. Obviously, that is not the Tory concept of consultation. The trade union movement—I speak with some experience—is already angered and embittered because of this lack of consultation. Trade unions feel that they have been brushed to one side. These proposals affect the lives of millions of people. Unions want the opportunity to discuss all the aspects of this, because the proposals have not been carefully worked out. The document bears a close relationship to ""Fair Deal at Work"", the Tory pamphlet which was prepared in advance of the Report of the Donovan Commission. In other words, the Government are unwilling to take any notice of the findings of a Royal Commission which sat for three years and took evidence from over 400 organisations. It has become clear to the trade union movement that the Government are seeking a head-on clash with the trade unions. In my 30 years' experience I have never known the trade union movement to be  so united as it is in its opposition to these proposals. It is not too late for the Government to think again. Let sanity prevail. Let the Government take back this ill-conceived document and put it in the think tank—I was going to say, let them stuff it in the think tank, but I suppose that that would be a little unparliamentary. However, the document needs looking at again if there is to be full and adequate consultation and proper consideration of all these matters. This is what the Government will do if they have the interests of the nation at heart. If these proposals are put into a Bill and then enacted, the number of strikes will be increased. One of the essential pillars here is the right to join a trade union or not to do so. I will ask the House to consider the consequences in one or two instances. Someone wishing to become a London bus driver goes to a recruiting centre and on an application form he must indicate that he is prepared to join a trade union. When he goes to start work he is invited to join the trade union and he does so. Under these proposals presumably London Transport would have to take out that section of the application form, because it is not a condition of employment and it is one of the essential pillars of the policy. When such a person reported for work he would probably be allowed to go into training, a costly exercise lasting more than three weeks. On his reporting to a garage, if he had not joined the union and if he said that he did not want to do so but would pay the money to a charity, without doubt the other busmen in the garage would refuse to work with him. Then there would be an unofficial strike. After a time, presumably the strikers would be reported to the Industrial Court and their leaders would be fined for taking this action. Busmen in other garages would strike in sympathy with the first garage. If the union leaders did not use their best endeavours, whatever that means, to settle the strike they, too, would be heavily fine. If they refused to pay the fine they would be imprisoned. If the Government behaved in that way to a trade union, the situation would escalate. One cannot imagine the dockers standing idly by whilst their general secretary was jailed for non-payment of a fine. Let me now take the example of power stations, where there is virtually a closed shop. Let us assume that a man who is already a member of a union falls out with his shop steward and decides that he will drop out and pay money to a charity instead. The other workers will say that they will not work with him because he has no trade union card. There is an unofficial stoppage. The same situation will go right the way through. Workers at every power station will strike in sympathy and there will be a national emergency. These are but two examples of how the policy, far from being effective, will cause even more strikes. Under this policy, would postmen who took sympathetic action because of somebody being unfairly sacked, as they thought, be referred to the Industrial Court? The Government would presumably use the cooling off period for there to be some form of arbitration, but they have already shown that they do not like arbitration. What was their reaction to arbitration in the council dispute? In a petulant and boorish speech on ""Panorama"", the Prime Minister discredited men who have a lifetime of experience in industrial relations and know more about the subject than he ever will. He cast a slur on their integrity. It is time someone on the other side had the grace to say that this was unfair to people who could not speak for themselves. This policy will cause disunity and all sorts of difficulties for the country as a whole. If they have the interests of the nation at heart the Government will take the document back and reconsider it in detail. The policy will not work. We will prove that. If the Government insist on these proposals being put into a Bill, we will show the Government—either on the Floor of the House or in Standing Committee—that the policy will not work. The Donovan Report said: The problem""— it was referring to strikes generally— is peculiar to this country. It has been created by a number of factors … The most important among these is the inadequacy of our collective bargaining system, and especially the lack of clear, speedy, comprehensive and effective procedures for the settlement of grievances … the most important step to be  taken in order to get rid of unconstitutional strikes is the reform of our collective bargaining system. This is our central recommendation. We cannot recommend anything that may jeopardise its success. The Government are not prepared to take the advice of a Royal Commission that sat for three years and hammered out its policy. The Royal Commission took all the evidence to which I have referred, and yet the Government take no notice of it. I ask the Government to think again, in the interest of the nation, otherwise they will experience the wrath, the bitterness and the dislike of millions of trade unionists. I thank hon. Members for their courtesy in listening to me.
