gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask for the indulgence of the House on this my first contribution to debate. If hon. Members are kind enough to grant it, they will certainly assist me during the next ten minutes or so. What is more, the business of the House may be expedited. I followed the speech of the hon. Member for Grimsby (Mr. Crosland) with the greatest interest. I hope he will not think me discourteous if I leave the many important points he raised to be dealt with by hon. Members much more experienced than I. I want to talk about the human element in our economy, those who with their heads and hands produce the goods. We all know that scientific knowledge, capital, brains and skill are vital, but they are not enough to maintain the prosperity of our country and make it go forward with the speed at which we want it to go. There must be the will and the effort as well. It is at this point that there is so much criticism It is said that we lack  aggressive salesmanship, that we do not invest enough, or that we do not invent enough. Delivery dates, for a variety of reasons, may be late, and so on. All this is just a symptom of the disease. The disease itself is the lack of will and effort. The best example I know of what can be done was the effort made by the people of this country during the early years of the last war. In the words of one who used to be a Member of the House of Commons, ""They burned the bloom off their cheeks, but they delivered the goods"". In more ordinary language, they raised their output per man-hour by 40 per cent. on pre-war figures and with much the same tools. The problem is how to imbue people with the will to make the effort to achieve that sort of result. In wartime, the common purpose which unites the community is obvious. It is survival. In peacetime, although the common purpose is also survival—the world does not owe these crowded islands a living—it is much more difficult to persuade men and women that this is so. I believe that we must begin by getting straight the human, day-to-day relations between all those who work together. My short experience in industry has shown me that, although many people are aware of this need, they are indifferent to it. Since I became a Member of the House, I have attended two talks to discuss a document known as the British Charter of Industrial Relations, produced by British manufacturers. The first talk was given by a well-known man, the head of an employers' organisation. He did not like the paper at all Paragraph 8 of it reads: Possible effects on all persons employed should be fully considered before any decision involving them is made. I do not like the wording of that very much myself, but the meaning is crystal-clear. The speaker picked out that paragraph for comment, and his comments were such that he was told from the body of the room that he need not be rude. Many people, including, perhaps, some hon. Members here, might say that that his comments were all one would expect from a wicked employer. The next week, however, a well-known trade union leader gave a talk on the same document, and he said much the same thing. The main criticism was that the document was far too woolly. But the truth   is that, although we can produce blueprints for a machine or a factory, we cannot blueprint our working relations. There are far too many intangibles. I am struck by the sense of loyalty of trade union members to their unions in industry. If necessary, they will sacrifice much for leaders in whom they have confidence. If the leaders of our industrial organisations could make their leadership understood, they also would command the same loyalty. It is asking a lot, but if that loyalty were given, and given without the certainty of permanent employment at the same firm or in the same place for all workers, which may be impossible because of economic change, then the economy of this country would be based on human relations in keeping with its problems. In The Times some time ago there was a letter asking that men from the Services when applying for a job should refrain from giving as a qualification that they were ""used to dealing with men"". The writer added, This is one thing we do not want. The trade unions do all that. How wrong that view is. I am sure that it is the duty of employers to explain to their workers at all levels the problems and relationships between job, firm and society. The task will be bedevilled by many historical issues and it will take time, but. basically, it is not difficult. This is so because the ordinary Briton is reasonable and tolerant. We tend to forget that human relations in industry cover more than wages and welfare, important though these are. There are many other factors involved. I know that there are many experienced hon. Members here who know much more about these matters than I do, but, if they will bear with me, I will give one or two examples to carry on my argument. A man working in a firm has several conflicting loyalties—to his family, to his union, if he is a member, and to the firm. The difference between a man on the floor and a man in administration must be appreciated. Sometimes, routines are changed regardless of social effects. A change of machinery may remove from a man the right to exercise his initiative. This alters the relationship  between supervisor and worker. Above all, a man needs to be told what is going to be done and why it is going to be done. And if frank, straightforward explanations are given, the response is sometimes astonishing. We have heard a great deal about take-over bids recently and today. The economic reasons for most of them are very good, and so are the reasons for keeping negotiations secret until the deal is completed. But, from the point of view of the man working in an organisation, we cannot expect him to identify himself fully with it if, after years of good service, he wakes up one morning and reads in the newspaper that his firm belongs to somebody else. This reacts also on many other firms outside the actual take-over. If we can get the human relations right in the economic life of the country—and it can be done—we shall once again have that vital sense of common purpose. But we still must inspire the effort. This is not only, or even primarily, a matter of working harder. It means also the taking of risks and the need to create. The motives which inspire people to do these things vary. It may be a desire to contribute to national or international welfare, or to achieve eminence in a profession. Probably, most of us are influenced by professional or public interest in the jobs we do. But there are many fields of work which are not particularly attractive and which do not arouse very much, if any, public interest. Also, they may entail hard work, the overcoming of many difficulties and the taking of risks. The result may be nothing but a small contribution to the material welfare of the country. Although these fields of work are less attractive, it is highly important that they should have their share of talent and effort. Since the glamour is lacking, other forces must be called in to redress the balance. Why not relate the material reward to the contribution made to the material welfare? There is no doubt that most people like to make money. And the reasons for this are by no means always selfish. It may be to give their families a better living, wider activities, and so on, but, whatever it is, the influence of money cannot be ignored, and the duller the work being done the more   important it is that this material self-interest should be harnessed. I have not time to deal with all the levels of working people and how they should be inspired to greater efforts, and I will turn to my last point. There is, I know, some controversy over this. It has been mentioned this afternoon, but I shall try to put it in a non-controversial way. For many years there has been a steady pressure in this country to reduce the extremes of wealth and poverty, and most people will agree that it is very necessary. I think that we would also agree that there is a point beyond which this process should not go. The argument is mainly where this point should be. The difficulty is to arrest the process, because there will always be more poor voters than rich ones, even if the word ""poor"" can only be used in a relative sense. At the present 'time the salary brackets are high of those men who are capable of pioneering an industry, who will take risks, and who will innovate, and I am not thinking entirely of the very top people. I am sure that high tax rates blunt their willingness to make that extra effort. What is just as important is that it deters people from moving freely from one job to another, particularly when they have to change their homes. I have said that the British people are both reasonable and tolerant. I do not believe that they cut off their noses to spite their faces. If they can be brought to realise that the lack of opportunity and reward for great talent is depriving them of the efforts of men who are to a large extent responsible for raising their standards of living, I am sure that they would be glad to see measures taken to reward these people. If we get our human relations right and so achieve a common purpose, and then, by proper rewards, particularly in humdrum fields, inspire our people to greater efforts, we need no longer look anxiously at our trade balance or our stock of gold. Those things will look after themselves.
