gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with a deep sense of humility that I rise to speak in this great and august Assembly. In conformity with custom, I ask the forbearance of hon. Members present during the short time that I seek to put my views before the House. The constituency which has entrusted me with the honour of representing it here in Parliament is Rochdale, a town which lies on the north-eastern rim of the great industrial area of Lancashire. As might be expected in such a town, which was the birthplace of the Co-operative movement and the home of John Bright, and which was represented in Parliament by Richard Cobden for quite a time, its people take political questions and controversies seriously. Its industry is wide and varied, and among its principal industries is cotton spinning and weaving. Indeed, Rochdale is the third largest cotton-spinning centre in this country, where every variety of cotton is spun, from the coarse Indian and American varieties to the finer Egyptian qualities. No wonder, therefore, that the people of Rochdale are always interested about anything which has to do with cotton. It is because of their interest in cotton that they are interested in the Japanese Peace Treaty. Most of them can remember the damaging effect which Japanese competition had upon the welfare of the cotton industry between the two wars. That competition did not derive its effectiveness from any superior skill on the part of its operatives or management. Precisely the opposite was the case. It derived it from the low labour standards of Japan, from the Japanese Government's manipulation of the yen and from subsidies and other methods which, in normal trade circumstances, would be regarded as inconsistent with proper commercial standards. It is nice to know, however, that the Japanese have given an assurance in this Peace Treaty that they intend to conduct their business with fair practices in the future. It is true that industrial conversations have taken place between representatives of the industry in this country and representatives of Japanese industry, and that the hope has been expressed in them that Japan's economic recovery will be accompanied by the raising of Japanese labour  standards. Like this country, Japan is ill-endowed with raw materials, and because of that she is fundamentally dependent upon her export trade. In a world which has been starved of cotton goods because of six years of war, it was right that Japan should play a part in alleviating that shortage. What we have to fear is the situation which will arise when that shortage has been met, when the world has a certain amount of trade to offer and the countries of the world are competing for it. In Rochdale, and in the cotton industry in particular, we are afraid that unbridled competition, based on low wages and the standards of the Orient, are far more likely to create unemployment and a lowering of British standards than raising the standards of the Japanese workers. On the other hand. hon. Members on both sides of the House should not overlook one positive step which has been taken in the Peace Treaty. It is a step which has not yet been mentioned in the House, and one which, if full advantage is taken, may assist us to protect our interests in the markets of East and Central Africa. I refer to the remark made in the Treaty that Japan renounces her right under the Convention of St. Germain-en-Laye, which is perhaps more commonly referred to as the Congo Basin Treaties. Most people who are connected with Empire and international trade have heard at one time or another of the Congo Basin Treaties. It is surprising how few have a really clear idea of their history and implications. The original Congo Basin Treaties were brought into being as far back as 1885 by what is known as the General Act of Berlin and they were modified five years later by the General Act and Declaration of Brussels. The Great War of 1914–18 cancelled the Treaties as between the belligerent nations, Great Britain, France, Belgium, Portugal and Russia on the one hand and Germany, Austria and Turkey on the other. When the Treaty of Versailles was signed, it was stipulated that the Congo Basin Treaties should once more be brought into being. It was also stipulated that the defeated enemy nations of Germany, Austria and Turkey should not be allowed to subscribe to the Treaties as signatories, and it was at that time that Japan was brought into the Congo   Basin Treaties as a signatory for the first time. The basis of the Treaties is that there shall be a full equality of trade in the territories of the Congo Basin and that any import duties which may be imposed shall apply equally to all countries irrespective of whether they are parties to the Treaties or not. In effect, they are instruments of free trade which open the trade door to a vast expanse of Central and Eastern Africa. By reason of their terms, Japan, the chief producer, soon found herself in a position to undercut all her rivals in those markets and soon found herself in a position where she had a virtual monopoly of those markets. Unfortunately, no time limit was expressed in the Treaty of St. Germain-en-Laye, nor is there any provision in the Treaty whereby it can be revised or revoked except by 100 per cent. agreement on the part of its signatories. Seeing that the Treaty virtually presented Japan with a monopoly of the East African market, and that the Treaty could not be altered or revised without Japan's sanction, it has paid Japan to act as a sort of dog in the manger and by that means keep to herself the great bulk of the trade in East Africa and Central Africa. It actually took the defeat of Japan in war to remove her from the benefits of the Treaty. By the provision in the Peace Treaty that Japan shall renounce her rights as a signatory power of the St. Germain-en-Laye Convention, that dog has now been taken out of the manger, and if the remaining signatory Powers now wish to revise or renounce the Treaty there is nothing to stop them, for Japan can no longer prevent it. I submit that that is a very definite step forward, but it is only a step, and it is no use unless it is followed up further, because it must be remembered that so long as the Convention of St. Germain-en-Laye is in being there is still nothing to prevent Japan from again monopolising those markets. The Japanese Peace Treaty does not at all alter Japan's ability to compete in those markets; all it does is to stop Japan from preventing the other signatory Powers from revising or revoking the Treaty. Many in the cotton industry are wondering what further steps are now  contemplated to prevent Japan from again getting an undue share of the East African market. Many are wondering whether it is the intention to initiate talks in order to find out whether the other signatory Powers will be agreeable to either a revision or a cancellation of the St. Germain-en-Laye Convention. Among many of the signatories of the Convention it has been felt for some time that its cancellation is long overdue, and I humbly submit to the House that the question of cancellation should be looked into very carefully and considered with the other signatory Powers, because in that way only can we be certain of protecting our own rights in our own Colonies in East Africa.
