gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to support the hon. Gentleman who has suggested that the Chancellor should review motor car taxation. I certainly believe that the present form of taxation controls the design of private cars and industrial vehicles. I wonder if the Chancellor has ever been to see the industrial vehicles weighed for taxation purposes. If so, he will know that people empty their radiators and petrol tanks, take off the spare tyres and even the tail boards in order to keep their vehicle down below a certain weight for taxation purposes. I listened with very great respect to the view put forward by the hon. Member for Edgbaston (Sir P. Bennett), who said that the motor car industry produced a motor car in accordance with public demand. I know he is an authority on this subject, and I always listen to his views with respect. If I go to a showroom to buy a motor car, I do not buy the car that I need but that which I can afford. At the moment I run a 12 horsepower dependable car, made in my own city, but in January I am faced with possibly a £15 insurance and a £15 taxation, and if I am buying a car I am faced with the purchase price of the car, plus £30. So I hesitated, and said, ""Oh, dear no,"" and I got an Austin 7. I know the limits and uses of the seven horsepower car, but nobody can convince me that an Austin 7 represents a family car, especially for a man of my stature. Under the present system we know that it represents the cheapest car we can afford. Now let us look at it the other way. Let us suppose, for the purpose of argument, that we shall have a flat car tax of £5. My initial expenditure at the beginning of the year would be substantially reduced, and when I wanted to go to the seaside it would only be a question of 2s.  or 4s. there and back, and for the convenience that I get in running a larger car I think it is worth while. I hope the Chancellor will pay due heed to my hon. Friend who said that many users of the roads, including the large industrial users, now agree that this would be the best form of taxation. I think that is important. All road users are agreed that this is the best form of taxation. I think that if we had a petrol tax we should find that the motor car designer would be able to design a car in the light of that figure; many of these very small models would disappear, and they would produce a car which would give better service in the home market. When we talk about export, we should only export that which is surplus to what we produce in the home market. I cannot agree with the argument that the wide multiplicity of designs in this country is necessary. 6.30 p.m. When we were fighting the war and building planes we did not allow people to say ""We will have this model here and this model there, and this little one here and this little one there."" We limited the number and so did a fine job of work. I want the Chancellor to use his imagination daringly. I do not think we ought to allow a halt between two opinions in the motor industry to influence us at present or to hold up the motor industry itself. I want to support the appeal of the hon. Gentleman the Member for East Middlesbrough (Mr. A. Edwards) to the Chancellor to hold his hand. At least let us inquire into this matter and, having inquired, let us determine policy, because I feel that now we have a change in rating we are going to design cars for the next 25 years, and if we miss an opportunity now I am afraid it is one that will not occur for another 25 years. Therefore I feel that this plea, which is for reasonableness, is one to which the Chancellor should pay due heed. We ought to have a clear study of the problem sufficient to make up our minds in April, and it is for that reason that I hope the Chancellor will accept the point made by the hon. Member for Middlesbrough.
