gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I think it is astonishingly hard on this House that I should now inflict upon hon. Members another maiden speech. We have already had two today and I understand that there are possibly more to come. I apologise for doing so but, having once put down one's name for a maiden speech, it is rather like putting down one's name for a dentist's appointment; it is not the sort of thing one backs out of lightly, because one likes to get it over and done with so as to enter on other and perhaps more controversial debates a little later. I want to try to be non-controversial. In fact, I think it will be difficult to be really controversial in this House. After I had heard the right hon. Gentleman the Minister for Housing and Local Government today demand a redistribution of the national income, I was convinced that the tenets of Socialism itself are no longer a controversial matter in this House. I want to perform not an antagonistic but a complementary service to the work which has been done by hon. Members opposite, because they have turned a very probing searchlight on to the ills and failings, so called, of the publicly-owned industries of this country, and I wish to do the same in respect of privately owned industry. We are united in our desire that there should be a higher level of production and productivity in this country, and that can come only through a combination of the efforts of both public and private industry. During the past six years, with a rise in productivity and production unprecedented in this country, we have   laid the foundations of a creative and expansive economy, which will serve the present Government very well in the current economic difficulties with which they are faced. I would point out, however, that there is very great room for improvement in both private industry and public industry. Although it is very difficult to outline a policy for private industry for an increase in productivity, there are one or two points which, I suggest, would create the sort of climate which will enable the workers in private industry to give further of their best in the national cause. I make a plea for a greater degree of incentive, for more flexibility and for greater efficiency in privately-owned industry. I think it is now clear from the statements which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has made to us that we have little to hope for by way of material incentive for harder endeavour during the next few months and years. The ham which made the incentive in the Yorkshire high tea has now been removed. The consumer goods which provoked a woman to provoke her husband to greater productive efforts have now been removed, or are being restricted, as a result of the re-armament drive. Consequently, material incentives will not be forthcoming in the required amounts, and that is why I suggest that if we can harness the good Socialist incentive of service to mankind and service to the community we can extract a greater contribution from the working people of this country in both public and private industry. This is not just a shibboleth from Socialist text books. It was proved during the past year when the miners were asked to give up their free time in the open air and the sunshine in order to go beneath the ground to hack out coal. They did it not for bigger pay packets, not for larger overtime payments; they did it because the country needs the coal and they were the only people who could get it. That was national service in response to a national appeal. But there is a moral which I think the House must draw. The miners knew that not one penny piece of unearned increment would go to any other section of the community as a result of their increased endeavours underneath the ground. This is not controversial. It is not controversial because, by their proposals to introduce an Excess Profits Tax, hon. Gentlemen opposite, and the Front Bench opposite, have realised the truth of the proposition that if we are to ask people to increase their already great endeavours we must agree that their enthusiasm will be dimmed if others are to enrich themselves at their expense and at the expense of their labour. I am, therefore, very pleased indeed to welcome the Chancellor's Excess Profits Tax proposal. There is only one difficulty in which I find myself; it is generally known to be a bad tax. I am too new a Member—and hon. Members have already had one economic dissertation this evening—to go to the lengths of explaining why it is a bad tax. Suffice to say that two Chancellors of the Exchequer—now ex-Chancellors of the Exchequer—have described it as such and, if hon. Members want any further support, Geoffrey Crowther, of the ""Economist,"" thinks it is a bad tax, as well. Faced by the reality of saying that no more unearned increment is to be obtained from the hard work of the British people, why not limit dividends clearly and crisply, as was proposed by the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer in a Labour Government? The question does not end there. There are other ways of exacerbating the feelings of people who are working hard, than the distribution of excess dividends. Extravagance is as rife in private industry, I suggest, as it is alleged to be in some sectors of public industry, and it is very annoying indeed for people who are working hard to find more motor cars being bought out of covenant to ferry about people whose journeys are really not necessary even in the interests of private industry and private business. It is very hard indeed to confront them with extravagant directors' fees—extravagant measured by the salaries paid to right hon. Gentlemen on the Front Bench opposite; it is very difficult to ask them to work hard if they are to see these extravagant directors' fees paid—and that is why I welcome the signal given by the right hon. Gentleman on the Front Bench opposite, even perhaps though I alone on these benches welcome it. I am very sorry indeed, that, after searching the public Press, I can find only   two instances of that signal being acknowledged as received and acted upon. One was the case of Montague Burton's firm, which reduced payments to their directors, and the other was that of a town council in the North of England which denied to the superintendent of its cemetery 3s. of a 7s. rise which he had been promised—and the excuse they gave was that they were acting upon the signal which had been transmitted from this House. I ask for flexibility in private enterprise. Again, I regard this as complementary to speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite who have asked for flexibility in public enterprise. I suggest that the greatest difficulty in obtaining that flexibility is the existence of the restrictive practices, the semi-monopolistic arrangements, the price rings, and the re-sale price maintenance arrangements which have hamstrung the native genius of our people and put our productive economy in a strait-jacket ever since about the 1930's. I think it is fair to point out—and I am being non-controversial here, because this has been pointed out by the right hon. Gentleman who is now the President of the Board of Trade—that the growth of monopoly in this country in the interwar years was a very serious thing for our economy as a whole. Knowing that the right hon. Gentleman is now a member of His Majesty's Government, I think we can look for some really trenchant and firm action from him to deal with monopoly and restrictive practices among the country's industrialists. I charge it as one of the failures of the late Government, a Government which I supported, that it was not strong enough in dealing with monopolies, and I am glad to see—and I hope this will be borne out—that hon. Members opposite enjoy the greater confidence of the industrialists. If that is really true they will, then, perhaps be able to persuade them to perform that act of self-immolation which we were unable to force upon them as a Labour Government. The only difficulty I think we shall be in seems to arise from a shrewd suspicion that the reason why Lord Woolton is not prepared to publish the funds of the Tory Party is because it would provide a short and comprehensive guide to the nature and extent of monopoly in the country. We demand an increase in the efficiency of private industry. A great deal of it is very efficient indeed, as is a great deal of public industry—a point which I do not think has been adequately made during the course of this debate. We admit that there are new problems now. There is the shortage of raw materials; there is the shortage of machine tools; but these things should act as a challenge to ingenuity and not as an invitation to despair. Within this community we have enough enterprise and initiative and endeavour to be able to solve a great many of the problems—not all of them, because some of them are well-nigh intractable; enough enterprise and initiative to lighten some of the burdens imposed upon us by the shortage of raw materials, if only we can cut out waste from a great deal of private enterprise and private industry. There is a grave charge here. I will not read out the full indictment because I think it is a good thing—I am told it is a good thing, which is forcibly impressed upon me—that a maiden speech be short; but there is a great deal of evidence from the working parties reports, from the Anglo-American Productivity Council's Reports. I could quote them all, but I shall not. However, I will take the liberty of quoting from the words of Sir George Schuster, not a protagonist of Socialism, but a very able man who has devoted a great deal of time to public service. They are words on the subject of efficiency and the demand to improve efficiency in private industry. Sir George said, in a letter to ""The Times,"" in October, 1949: Progress is much too uneven and too slow. There are many cases where progress is disastrously slow even when the way ahead is clear. There, I think from a purely non-controversial source, is a fair pointer to the state of potential danger in private industry, and it is up to private industry, encouraged, as I am sure it will be, and aided, and, I hope, prompted, and, I hope, provoked by right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite to improve its methods, to tighten up its efficiency, and to cut out waste. I think that one of the major steps which could be taken in this direction is to harness the great reserves of skill, knowledge and craftsmanship which exists among the workers in private   industry. That is another failure of the late Government. They did not, in my view, do enough to institute joint production and productivity councils throughout private industry. That was because, I am afraid, of the die-hard resistance of some of the hereditary managements in private industry, because those people were content to do as their fathers did before them. Quite frankly, it is not good enough, in this new and expansive age, to run private industry as one's father or grandfather ran it. I hope that hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, who have the ear of private industry, and who have influence with private industry, will use it to ask the private industrialists throughout the country to draw upon this great reserve of skill and of good will to institute real joint management, institute real joint production committees. I am sure that in that way quite a lot of waste will be cut out, because, believe me, the people who work on the shop floors know where waste is. There is one final factor which, I think, is needed in creating this climate which will enable the workers in private industry to give of their best. There must be no more talk of the need for a pool or reserve of unemployment to stimulate the people. [HON. MEMBERS: ""Hear, hear.""] I am glad that hon. Gentlemen opposite are agreed with me in that. They will not attempt to deny that there have been many statements which have implied, suggested or frankly stated that there should be the whip and spur of unemployment in order to make people work hard in private industry. That incentive is not only barbarous, but it does not work, because if people feel they are working themselves out of a job, then, naturally and protectively, they will introduce restrictive practices to protect their jobs. Because not only do they protect their jobs, but they protect the lives and livelihood of their families, by so doing. The only basis for a really productive, creative, expansive economy is that every worker should be assured of security, assured of full employment, assured that if he is sick or ill the State will come to his assistance through the social services and in other ways. The new dynamic in the economy can come only on the basis of a socially secure  system in which social justice and the elements of fair play and human decency are the guiding principles. If we can go along those lines, if we can manage to create that kind of economy, and if there is anything which hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite can do to influence the industrialists who have resisted us for many years, and persuade them to a change of heart, then not only will they qualify for a high place in the history of this country's Governments but they will be performing a tremendous service in raising the standards of the entire community.
