gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is the first occasion on which I have had the opportunity of addressing this House, and I would ask hon. Members to show their usual indulgence and I hope reasonable tolerance of any shortcomings in my speech. I want to spend a few minutes on the subject of the relationship between the   Government's financial policy, which is exemplified in this Finance Bill, and the wage-freeze policy. It has become abundantly clear that there is a very definite danger of the whole barrier of wage restraint crumbling into ruins in the near future. Therefore, I was in entire agreement with the hon. Member for Gloucestershire, South (Mr. Crosland) when in the Budget Debate he argued that in view of the present proposals of the Government, it seemed highly likely that they would have to make some spectacular intervention in the field of wages before the autumn is out. We are all agreed that any substantial and appreciable rise in wages in the near future would be extremely damaging. At one stroke it would wipe out all the benefits of devaluation, such as they are, and it would reverse the trend towards the overall balance in our dollar trade, which has made such very satisfactory progress during the past few months. The Financial Secretary to the Treasury this afternoon said that, roughly speaking, this Finance Bill is the same mixture as before, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer has said something similar. A most important ingredient of the mixture as before was the Chancellor's policy of freezing wages, salaries and dividends. One is driven to the conclusion that so long as the Government continue with their existing financial policy, so long will the Government be forced to try to maintain some form of wage-freeze. If this is so, it seems to be quite incredible that the Ministers concerned are not prepared to come out completely and clearly in favour of a national wages policy, which is the only thing that makes any sense of a wage-freeze. In any case, I should have thought that that would have been sound Socialism. Here I should like to recommend, in all humility to hon. Members opposite, a re-reading of that most lucid pamphlet ""Keeping Left,"" which I and many of my hon. Friends at the last election found to be the only clear and coherent exposition of Socialist policy which was published at the time of the election. It would be fair briefly to summarise the policy by saying that it is one of permanent controlled inflation. The inevitable result of a policy of that sort is a permanent upward pressure on wages, and, therefore, the authors have come to the very natural conclusion that  the only logical outcome of that is a national wages policy, which is then briefly sketched in. It is not my purpose on this occasion to go into all the merits or demerits of that particular Socialist thesis, except in so far as it has a reference to the wage-freeze. I submit that as long as we have a measure of inflation in our economy and continual rising prices the Government will be forced to continue some wage-freeze policy. This in turn will be quite unworkable and in many cases utterly unjust, unless backed by a national wages policy. I would hasten to add that I have not the slightest faith in a policy of controlled inflation; secondly, I firmly dislike the wage-freeze; and, thirdly, I abominate a national wages policy. I should like, therefore, to turn to the alternatives to this very dangerous course, upon which we are set at the moment. The first essential, I suppose. is quite obvious. We must get rid once and for all of the remaining inflationary pressure in our economy, which seems to be an inseparable companion to Socialist rule. It must be done, too, before we abandon the wage-freeze policy. Consequently, we must try to make those who are at the moment concerned about higher pay understand that high cash wages are not the only or even the best method of obtaining higher real wages. There is the alternative of lower prices, and the natural precursor to lower prices is lower Government expenditure and a corresponding reduction in taxation. We can all perfectly well appreciate the ordinary wage-earner's point of view at present. He is faced, on the one hand, with ever-rising prices, and, on the other, with very large figures for gross profits shown year after year by the firm for which he works. As he feels the pinch he very naturally thinks that the simple solution to his problem would be for him to have a larger share of the gross profits of the industry in which he works. There is no doubt that in certain cases that would be perfectly right and fair, but in the vast majority of cases, as the Chancellor knows and as he has stated, these profits are not excessive when it is realised that after paying heavy taxation the firms have then to provide for the modernisation and expansion of the industry. A simple illustration is given by the shipping industry. Let us take a shipping   company running one of the great Atlantic lines. I understand that before the war one of those ships cost about £4 million, and, of course, the depreciation allowances were based on that figure. After 25 years have gone by and the time comes to replace that ship, it will cost £12 million at the very minimum, which is three times the figure allowed by the taxation authorities for depreciation. A difference of roughly £8 million has to be found by the company, presumably out of reserves which have been set aside out of their gross profits. In order to set aside £8 million in reserves, a company has to make a gross profit before taxation of something like £15 million. That is a colossal sum of money, yet it is only what is absolutely necessary to keep a fleet modern and in a condition in which it is capable of competing for the traffic on those routes and so earning a livelihood for all the people employed by the company. That is £15 million in order to stay in the same relative position. I really believe that the Red Queen would have been hailed as a financial pundit at this time because we have to do an immense amount of running to stay in the same place. I wonder if the Chancellor could find a scheme which would enable earnings to be relieved of taxation when they are set aside in companies' accounts for replacement and are then so used. Obviously if they are not used for replacement they become subject to taxation. That kind of scheme seems to have a very great advantage because any concessions which the Chancellor made along those lines would increase the amount of private capital saving. He would therefore not have to try to recoup himself with any alternative method of taxation because he could simply reduce his below-the-line surplus in the Budget by a similar amount. The scheme seems to have very few drawbacks. The only alternative if it were not a reasonable proposition would be a reduction in the tax on undistributed profits in companies, but I do not think that that would meet the case as well as the scheme which I have suggested. A further point which leads me to suppose that the Chancellor will have great difficulty in holding back the tied wages  in the coming months is his rather optimistic figures for the amount which he expects in the way of capital formation out of private savings. This figure is supposed to increase to £160 million over the 1949 figure. That does not include the increasing amounts which are put aside in the way of depreciation allowances, and surely very little of that—even none of it—can be expected to come from increased personal private savings. Therefore, we must presume that it will come out of profits placed to reserve from companies' trading. If that very greatly increased figure is to be obtained the gross profits that have to be earned by private industry have to rise by something well over £200 million in the coming year. I really cannot see how he can possibly hope to restrain wages in face of ever-increasing profits of that kind. Higher prices and higher profits are the inevitable results of the Government's past and present financial policy, and if the Government pursue them I can only think that it will lead to a very grim day of reckoning for all of us. If they are determined to pursue these existing policies it seems to me that, quite logically, they must proceed towards a national wages policy sanctioned by the Cabinet as suggested by the authors of ""Keeping Left."" Should this course of action not commend itself to those who are now leading the very rapid retreat from the pure doctrine of Socialism, they must turn their steps in an entirely different direction and pursue a policy which I shall briefly summarise as follows. Firstly, they must make a concerted and final attack to obliterate the remaining inflationary pressure in this country. Secondly, they must reorganise the machinery of taxation so that the gross profits accurately reflect the real surplus wealth created during the past year by various trading companies. This sum, after being duly emasculated by the Chancellor, would then be the true sum available to be allocated and divided up for the expansion and development of the industry for the benefit of the workers in the industry and for the benefit of the shareholders. Then the trade union leaders would see much more clearly where their charges of excessive profits were justified and where they were not. Thirdly, when the first two of these objectives have been achieved and prices   and profits cease to rise and even start to decline—but not before—the Government should remove the clamp on wages and let us get back to genuinely free collective bargaining again. Then the efficient and expanding industries, suitably prompted by trade union leaders, could start paying higher and higher wages and so gradually draw off labour from the inefficient and the contracting businesses. I believe that this is the way of our salvation. I believe that it is the only way to ensure an efficient and flexible economy in this country which will emerge triumphant from the extremely competitive conditions which now lie directly ahead of us, and that only thus can British industry harvest for all our fellow countrymen the better, higher and fuller standard of life which they so richly deserve.
