gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As I rise to address the Committee for the first time, I feel greatly in need of the indulgence which is normally extended to an hon. Member upon such occasions. I can only hope that it will be extended to me. Naturally, I shall not attempt to enter into the controversial arguments upon economic policy which we have heard this afternoon. I want only to stress the unfortunate effects which sudden economic restrictions, especially upon capital expenditure, have upon isolated and lonely rural communities, of which there  are many in my constituency in Cumberland. These areas form a vital part of our agricultural industry. The food which they produce can make a substantial saving in imports, but they will never be fully productive until the farmers and their workers can live and work in modern conditions. It is certainly true that considerable progress has been made since the war in meeting such basic needs as decent housing, electricity, water supply and reasonable communications, but I know that everyone will agree that it is equally true that much still remains to be done. In the Report of the North-West Electricity Board for the year ending March, 1955, I read that there are still 3,480 farms to be connected with the electricity supply in the Lakeland sub-area alone. All these farms are situated in the remote areas of Cumberland and Westmorland. In addition, there are long waiting lists for telephones on the farms and telephone kiosks in the villages, which are of great importance. Much expenditure is still required in housing, sewerage schemes and water supplies. There can be no doubt that sudden economic restrictions upon this vital work can prove very short-sighted in the long run. Surprisingly enough to those who visit the Lake District, many parts of Cumberland are very short of water. Some years ago a comprehensive scheme, sponsored by several local authorities, was put forward. It would have been expensive in initial capital outlay but, on the other hand, it would have ensured abundant supplies of water at all times for the whole area. When it was introduced, however, an economy drive was in progress, and the Government of the day refused a grant. I do not blame them; that is merely the inevitable result of all economy drives. But what has happened? That major project fell through and the individual local authorities were forced to proceed with smaller and less effective patchwork schemes. Now, despite much expenditure upon this work, many villages and farms have been gravely short of water during the recent drought, not only for days but for weeks on end. It is the definite opinion of the local authorities concerned that this trouble could have been avoided if only the Government had seen fit to make a grant in   the first instance—and in the long run it would not have cost very much more. Such shortage causes grave inconvenience to human beings, but we should not forget that it also strikes a direct blow at agricultural production, especially upon dairy farms. In the same way, electricity is of great value in the home, but it also increases efficiency in the farmsteadings. Telephones near at hand—whether actually on the farms or in kiosks in the villages—are of the utmost value in urgent cases both of human and animal illness. It is clear to everyone that the lack of modern amenities has a direct effect upon agricultural production, but the indirect effect of good living conditions is of even more vital importance. I am sure that everyone would agree that we need highly skilled workers in our remote areas, where many valuable herds of cattle and sheep are kept. Agricultural labour is very short today, and the remote areas are the most seriously affected. Their labour position will go from bad to worse in the future if they cannot offer good living conditions and reasonable communications with the nearest shopping centres. In this latter connection, I hope that we shall not become so obsessed with the obvious and serious needs of our trunk roads that we forget the lonely country roads that have to be maintained and improved, often at great cost. I am not happy about the rural bus services. Their operating costs are very high and their potential passengers few, and today they are declaring that many services cannot be continued upon financial grounds. I can only hope that as the value of their service to the lonely communities is especially great, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, knowing the facts, may feel able to reduce the level of petrol tax. In all this, I have been particularly anxious to stress the needs of the local people, but I do not for one moment want to suggest that the hardy people who live in these isolated districts should not play their part in supporting the measures which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has introduced in his determination to put the nation's economy on a sure footing. They would certainly wish to do so, for no class of people could be more loyal to their country and to the land on which  they work. I am convinced that if we as a nation, with our predominantly urban population, forget them and fail to provide modern amenities as fast as we can, then, in the long run, through the obvious drift to the more populated areas, we shall lose a priceless asset, and, indeed, a very valuable source of home food production. I hope, therefore, that the Government Departments concerned, when they administer these new measures, will give sympathetic consideration to projects in the remote rural areas. I can only end by saying that my firm belief in the real worth and value of these country people has encouraged me to undertake this ordeal.
