gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In common with others who have made their   maiden speeches, I must ask for the kind indulgence of hon. Members now that I am addressing this House for the first time. Perhaps it is appropriate at this stage, when the profit motive has been so prominently before us that I should indicate that I am representing a movement that has substituted for the profit motive, the motive of service. That business is carried on successfully without distributing anything in the nature of private profits. So far as this Debate is concerned, however, I recognise that we are primarily concerned with the vexed question of taxation. It has been suggested by an eminent Finance Minister that taxation is the art of plucking the goose in such a way as to get the greatest number of feathers with the minimum of squealing. A most illustrious person has been brought into this Debate during the course of the evening—I refer to the late Mr. Gladstone —and it has been said that he reduced the process of plucking the feathers to a very fine art in the methods he has adopted in regard to taxation generally. The present Chancellor of the Exchequer is accused sometimes of adopting methods that belong to the Victorian age, and I would remind hon. Members generally that the principles of taxation that have been adopted in this country by Chancellors of the Exchequer in the past have been principles that were laid down by their own famous economists, Adam Smith and Ricardo. The assumption has been that expenditure by the State should be utilised first for the purpose of defending the country against external violence, secondly for the purpose of maintaining law and order within the State, and thirdly in promoting institutions and undertakings which it would not be profitable for others to undertake. I think it is well for us on this side to remember sometimes, when we are accused by the people on the opposite benches, that they themselves laid it down that the State should not embark upon expenditure which would bring profitable returns; they cannot, therefore, because the State has been obliged to embark upon certain works that have not been profitable, point to those unprofitable works as a reason why we should not embark upon nationalisation. I want hon. Members to appreciate that we are prepared to accept this Budget and give a hearty welcome to the concessions that have already been made, especially to the lower-income members of the community. Notwithstanding that mathematically it may be possible to demonstrate that, allowing for postwar credits, the concession that has actually been granted is not as great as it would immediately appear, I submit that the majority of the people of this country are better disciples of Omar Khayyam than they are of '' The Economist,'' and judging by the letters I have received they are quite prepared to takes the cash instead of leaving it to build up postwar credits. We all recognise that taxation will be determined ultimately by the degree of productivity that can be maintained in the country, and by his immediate concession—at least, a concession that will come into operation before long—in exempting earned income below a certain level, the Chancellor has, I submit, done far more to increase production in this country than would have been done by most of the other Measures which have been adopted up to now. Furthermore, we welcome the effort he has made to stabilise prices, because nothing can be more destructive of confidence than instability of prices. When people enter into a wage agreement, or a matter of that kind, they like to feel that during the course of that agreement money will continue to purchase the same quantity of goods as when the agreement was entered into. I would modestly submit that we sometimes pay far too much attention to the taxes actually imposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and forget various other forms of taxation. A great deal of play has been made during the course of this Debate with the fact that previous Chancellors had already garnered the harvest of wealth, and that henceforth it would be increasingly difficult for any future Chancellor to raise the taxation necessary to carry out the social service schemes. If they will look up the statistics, they will find that despite the fact that taxation has already been fairly heavy, it has done nothing to equalise the ownership of wealth. The most obnoxious form of taxation so far as the great majority are concerned is not the taxation imposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but the taxation, imposed   by the owners of economic power, on other people's right to work. In other words, the great majority of people have to pay a tax in order to have the privilege to work. I suggest to the Chancellor that instead of adhering to the old traditional Liberal principles of taxation, he should embark upon sound Socialist principles, and not be merely concerned with a greater measure of equality in incomes. He should so design his legislation as to make it possible for us to exercise a far greater degree of economic power to prevent accumulating in the hands of a few wealth that must afterwards be heavily taxed. In other words, if we stop people from becoming wealthy, they will not complain so bitterly afterwards at the taxation imposed upon them. I welcome the concessions that have been granted in regard to Purchase Tax, because I have always believed that the Purchase Tax was one of the most iniquitous forms of taxation ever imposed upon the consumer. As one who had some part in its administration I know perfectly well that long before the tax was imposed upon the people who could afford it, it was imposed upon the people with weekly incomes, who found it impossible to purchase those articles on which the tax fell most heavily. I sincerely hope that the Chancellor will draw up a list of priorities in regard to Purchase Tax on the sound principle of removing it as fast as he can from all things, but removing it first from those articles which can be regarded as necessities before removing it from those which can be regarded as luxuries. I conclude with one reference to a subject which has brought forth a certain amount of criticism, sometimes from those Benches and sometimes from these, namely, the savings movement. When people in this House do anything to deprecate the savings movement, they are casting a reflection upon millions of ordinary people who have made a great sacrifice during the period of the war by withholding their purchasing power in the interests of the nation. So long as shortage still prevails, I believe a great service is still being performed by those who withhold expenditure. I readily concede that once there is an abundance of goods, and the supply exceeds demand, there will be no further need for saving,  but I do think that this House should at least appreciate what has been done during the war and during this transitional period by those who have voluntarily abstained from the consumption of articles and have made it possible for wealth and labour to be diverted to more important purposes.
