gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I crave the indulgence of the House for this initial submission of mine. The subject of this debate was foremost during the recent by-election at Morpeth. It is a matter which is not only of special importance in my constituency but is of general interest throughout the country. I do not believe that 4 million old-age pensioners can be accused of political electioneering when they appeal to those in power to assist them in their difficulty. The difficulties in which they find themselves are unquestionable, and have not arisen only in recent weeks, but have been known to the Government for many months past, and so might have been listened to, so that measures might have been taken to alleviate their difficulties. I suggest that this House will seek to solve the problem on broad humanitarian grounds. On those grounds alone, I feel that some immediate steps can be taken to meet the urgency of the present situation. I think it wrong to assume that these people have made their nation-wide request on the basis of an organised effort. They have believed the statements that have been made over the past six months. They believed that they were statements of purpose and substance. When they were told that this is a prosperous Britain, they felt they had a right to ask for some meagre share of that potential prosperity. When they ware told that consideration was being given to other sections of the community they felt an equal right to ask that their humble circumstances might also command the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They have felt that the problem of the increased cost of living is not resolved for them by juggling with the cost-of-living index; that does not meet their needs. To promise that plans are in hand for tomorrow does not relieve the anxiety or the needs of today. These people, the aged population of Britain, have been compelled to solicit the interest of this House because of the rise in the cost of living, which has seriously affected their humble standards of existence. Therefore, they are asking that we should be prepared not only to promise that something will be done, even in the near  future, but to give them some early, indeed immediate, relief. It has been suggested that the approaching festive season brings an opportunity for someone to become a Santa Claus in a major sense to these 4 million old-age pensioners. That appeal, I hope, will reach a heart capable of feeling more than a little sympathy, will be understood by a mind that is alert to the requirements of these people through knowledge of what they are. It has been suggested that a decision must be taken whether to increase the basic pension or, alternatively, to provide facilities for meeting the needs from National Assistance. Those who know the old people best know their basic fear of making application for National Assistance is the fear of the means test, which has bitten so deeply into their lives in past years. It is not, therefore, to be expected that even a possible alleviation of immediate difficulties from National Assistance will meet the requirements of these people at this day. I submit to the House, therefore, the simple appeal, willingness to support which has already been indicated on this side of the House, for the expedition of measures whereby some immediate alleviation of this problem can be achieved. I believe that such alleviation is practically possible before the end of the year.
