gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address this House for the first time, and in so doing I am confident about only one thing, and that is that my very small contribution to this debate Will be received with the usual tolerance, kindness and understanding accorded to hon. Members when they are faced with the prospect of undertaking the task that lies ahead of me. In return, I promise that I shall be brief, because I am deeply conscious of my shortcomings, and because, if I may quote, I have it on the highest authority of this House, Mr. Speaker himself, that It is a matter of simple arithmetic that if an hon. Member takes 20 minutes to make a speech, there is time for another speech of the same length. If he takes 40 minutes, one speech is cut out.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 7th June, 1955; Vol. 542, c. 8.] I assure you, Mr. Speaker, that I shall not even take the 20 minutes. In choosing this occasion today, I am well aware that many hon. Members more experienced than myself will deem me to be unwise, but I can justify my decision, at least to myself, by saying that there is no interest that lies deeper  in my heart than that of the countryside; and, if I may discriminate, may I also say that of the Scottish countryside, which, I hope, we may be able to preserve for our children and our children's children to enjoy. But our considerations must range wider than the preservation of the countryside for enjoyment, because the plain fact understood by most people is that the contribution made by the rural areas, in agriculture, in forestry, in tourism, and so on, plays a vital part in the well-being of this island of ours. Already, great strides have been made in providing amenities and necessary services. The Government and the local authorities have made great progress in providing modern houses, piped water supplies, good drainage schemes, improved roads, electricity and telephone installations. The modern trends in planning are, rightly I believe, towards providing agricultural houses in groups, or ""cluchans"" so that wives may be better able to visit towns and children better able to get to the schools. All the advantages of these services and amenities will be lost—in many cases they have been lost—unless adequate transport is provided. In my constituency, Kinross and West Perthshire, there are many rural areas where no public transport whatever is provided. In these days agricultural workers will simply not take up positions in the industry unless such services exist. This has inevitably resulted in good arable land being put down to grass. Arable land needs men and machines working together. Machines will not work by remote control. The same tragic situation is arising in our noble glens, like Glendevon and Glen Lyon, perhaps the noblest of them all, where sheep farmers are finding it virtually impossible to engage shepherds. The same problem arises: shepherds will not just accept appointments, unless some form of public transport is available. The North of Scotland Hydro-Electric Board, as you know, Mr. Speaker, is required by Parliament to carry out, so far as its position and powers permit, any measures for the economic development and social improvement of the area in which it operates. This work is of great importance to the depopulated parts of the northern counties of Scotland, and   many of the experiments and researches being carried out by the Board or in co-operation with other bodies are providing, and could still further provide, much stimulus to life in the Highlands. This also will be seriously retarded unless transport facilities are provided. I hope that my remarks about the Hydro-Electric Board will not encourage my hon. Friend the Member for Kidder-minister (Mr. Nabarro), who is inclined from time to time to upbraid the Board, to consider what I have said as controversial. I would remind him that he has as great an interest as anyone else in our glens carrying a heavy population of sheep, for the sheep provide the important raw material for the carpet industry in his constituency. I would remind my hon. Friend that there are perhops more than ""two black sheep on the Braes of Balquidder."" We have heard of ""the drift to the towns"" or ""the drift from the countryside."" I do not know which is correct, but I know that the towns and the countryside are drifting wider apart, and that is to the detriment of both. The drift will continue unless we do something about it, and something can be done about it. Agricultural workers have the right to the same services as workers in the towns, and if the agricultural worker and his wife cannot get these services they will inevitably move to the towns and, as sure as night follows day, we shall find that the countryside is seriously denuded of workers. I see in the Bill the start of action to safeguard public transport in rural areas, and it is for that reason that I support it. I have hopes that the Bill may yet be improved to safeguard existing road transport and even to make provision for new services in remote rural areas where there is none. Even if this cannot at this stage be achieved, I feel that the Bill makes a start with the problem. In the remoter parts of the countryside, where orthodox methods of transport might prove uneconomical, I believe that much can be done by resorting to unorthodox methods, such as using buses or other vehicles of a size more in keeping with the number of passengers to be carried, using a small vehicle carrying six to eight passengers and having a driver who also collects the fares. I believe that if such methods were adopted  many of the routes could be made to run economically. I have already had some experience of railway lines being closed. I have attended and given evidence before transport users' consultative committees considering the closure of branch lines. I have been far from convinced that the support which the committees have given to the Transport Commission's proposals to close the lines has been warranted. In fairness, however, I must draw attention to a case now being considered in my constituency relating to the Gleneagles—Crieff—Comrie line. The consultative committee came out against the Commission and found that no case had been made out for the closure. But, even here, what action was taken? The Commission decided to run the railway for a further six months and to decide on the result of that working whether or not the line should be kept open. There is no safeguard that when the six months are up in February, irrespective of any recommendations which may be made by the consultative committee, the Commission may not decide, willy-nilly, to close the line. The line serves a population of about 10,000 people engaged in agriculture, industry, forestry, and a not inconsiderable tourist traffic. My constituency is faced with the danger of many stations being closed, and hardship will be caused unless this action is stopped or alternative arrangements are made. I know that when a branch line is closed the general manager of British Railways in Scotland is very willing to co-operate with bus companies to arrange an alternative bus service, but either the service is never provided or there is always the danger of the buses being withdrawn after running for three or four months. This Bill provides safeguards against such practices. In conclusion, I suggest that movement, whether applied to our daily lives, to agriculture or to industry, is the most important single factor as a means to the end. This is particularly important in rural areas because of the distances involved. Without movement, not only should we lose efficiency but everything would come to a standstill. Therefore, anything that we can do to facilitate or improve movement by means of transport in rural areas is, taking a broad view, a   step in the right direction, and I believe that the Bill has this object in view.
