gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In a book written by a distinguished servant of this House giving invaluable advice to an apprentice Member of Parliament, I find it is suggested that on the occasion of a maiden speech a Member should show diffidence. Diffidence is not the word for it. I am positively awestruck; I am awestruck largely by the supreme courage of the Opposition who, on the basis of the content of the speeches they have so far made, are apparently going to insist upon a Division on this Motion of Censure. The main charge against us, so far as I can discover, is that we have departed from a precedent long set by previous Governments. We are, at least, making an attempt to carry out our Election pledges. This is distressing to the Opposition, not only because we are carrying out our Election pledges, but because during the course of the Election campaign they were at great pains to assure the electors that, whatever we promised, we had not the guts to carry out our promises. They find themselves in this dilemma: Having argued that we were too weak to govern, they are trying now to substantiate the charge that we are rough-riding over a nation that fundamentally is opposed to us. To reconcile those two points of view, or to attempt to reconcile them, in public, strikes me as being the reason why we should pay tribute to the impressive lack of sensitiveness shown by hon. Members opposite. It is true that as a Government we face great difficulties. Our Socialist argument, and our basic indictment against the system for which the Opposition stand, always was that it created shortage, that it created starvation in the midst of plenty and that it refused to build houses while we had builders out of work. It happens to be true that, at the time when Labour has got power, the shortages are there, very real shortages which did not exist before the war. All the difficulties we recognise, and we are compelled, before we can make anything like a reasonable start upon tackling them, to prepare the basis upon which to build the better Britain. The basis is, to a large extent, schemes of nationalisation for the basic industries. I have been in the Socialist movement ever since I was a child. My father was in it before me. I have never heard a Socialist argue that nationalisation was  some magic way of solving all those problems. My father spent most of his life in the coalmines. He was intelligent. All miners are intelligent and that is why all miners vote Labour. He advocated nationalisation, but no Socialist ever advocated nationalisation as a solution in itself. They said that it was a start upon which to create a better spirit in our industries, a basis for the better exploitation of technical resources. That is the basis of our claim. As against that, what do the Opposition produce to justify their case against nationalisation? One thing that has been overlooked about this party in the many analyses that have appeared in the intellectual Press is its composition. It is suggested that the party has changed from the old-fashioned trade unionist type to a preponderance of Members representing the middle class and the professional classes. Let not the fact be overlooked that many of us who now call ourselves professional people came, as I see on looking round this House, in practically every case, from working-class homes. We combine, therefore, two strengths. First, the working-class background and, secondly, at least some of the advantages to which other Members have had an automatic right, but which our parents have had to give us by their own sacrifice. Therefore, the Labour Party which the Opposition face today is one, as the Opposition have discovered with horror, that has the courage to do the job it was sent here to do. Many people not here tonight will be going down on their knees and praying for the success of this Motion. They will hope that visitors will be so many in the Lobbies that, by some mischance, many Labour Members will be missing and that the Motion will be carried. Suppose we had a black marketeer in a big way of business, and he had a vote in this House. On which side would he vote? Suppose we had any land racketeer, any racketeer of any kind waiting to reap a rich, fat harvest out of the famine that exists in so many spheres of production. Who would he vote for? Would he walk into the Lobbies with us, or would he march in led by the right hon. Member for Alder-shot (Mr. Lyttelton), who so gallantly carried in one hand the banner of freedom and doubtless had in the other the Directory of Directors, as a basis for the membership of the new ""People's   Party"" the Conservatives propose to form in due course? Quite clearly, all those elements are with the Opposition, irrespective of the motives of the Opposition, which I regard as completely honest if rather stupid. May I, in conclusion, say something that I am not certain I ought to say, although I do not think I can be accused of being controversial, because my view is shared by so many hon. Members? I ask both sides of the House to believe that I am speaking from the bottom of my heart. It was a privilege to many of us on both sides of this House to see the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Woodford (Mr. Churchill), the Leader of the Opposition, in what he once described ""the good days and the bad."" We saw him in his great days, both here in London and overseas talking to the troops. Many of us had that experience; he was, and I do not think anyone in this House would deny it, a great man. As far as my reading of political history goes, there have been many great tragedies in the history of this House, many moments of pathos and many great careers that have gone out like a guttering candle. There has been no greater tragedy in the long history of this House than that which is now being enacted on the Front Opposition Bench. There we see a great man being deliberately humiliated and his past record used in order to prop up the falling fortunes of the Conservative Party. We in this party have been accused very often of not having the sportsmanlike instincts of the other side, but I do assure the right hon. Gentleman that I am absolutely sincere in this. It is a horrible sight to see a stag dying with the hounds at its throat. But when the hogs are grunting at its hindquarters at the same time it is even worse. I ask the House to forgive me if I have appeared provocative. I can only offer as an excuse the fact that many of my predecessors who have made maiden speeches have set me an equally provocative example.
