gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I, too, am a new Member, and I also crave the indulgence of this House for this, my first speech here. Some aspects of the subject under consideration can be regarded as very controversial. I have no intention of being controversial in this speech and shall try to avoid being so, however difficult that may be. I, too, am a miner from the County of Durham, and I am proud of the fact.   I have lived and worked amongst miners all my life. For most of the last five years I have travelled various mines daily as a mines inspector. There are eighteen collieries in my district, some where the working conditions are quite good, others where the working conditions are not so good—are, indeed, very poor. With this experience behind me I think I can claim with some modesty to know something about the Durham miners at least, and quite a bit, too, of miners in general, for there is really little fundamental difference between miners anywhere. Indeed, that may be true of workers in any occupation. One thing that can be said of our men in the mining industry is that they are solidly welded together in their trade union. Furthermore, I think it true to say that by far the greater number of the men are loyal, not only to their union, but equally loyal to the nation, in both peace and war. We are very appreciative of all that has been done in the way of improvement of the working conditions in our mines, largely by the efforts of the union to which we belong. That is not to say that we are entirely free from disturbances in our industrial relations, the subject of this debate. The purpose of this debate is, I hope, to find ways and means likely to improve industrial relations and the avoidance of industrial disturbances which so adversely affect the economic welfare of our country. The subject of industrial relations is a very wide one, and there are many things that could be considered when we are discussing it; for example, wages, hours of work, conditions of work, and so on; but, being desirous of not being controversial, I shall refrain from referring to those aspects of industrial relations, which may be very contentious matters. There is one question, however, that I can refer to without, I think, raising the ire of hon. Members on either side of this House, and that is the question of human relations in industry. I believe that that aspect of industrial relations is of paramount importance. It is quite usual for very big fires to be started in a small way. Quite often the same can be said of industrial disturbances. It is probably true to say that some stoppages of work during the last few years, even in my own industry, which have eventually become  quite alarming, originated in a small way, and could have been averted if knowledge and understanding of the inherent wants of mankind had been displayed by those in authority. There was a time in our industrial history, not so very long ago, when the fear of losing one's job and of unemployment had a restraining effect on a man's actions, whatever his grievances. That time has gone—for ever, I hope. With the changing economic circumstances comes the need for more knowledgeable management of men. I suggest, therefore, the pursuit of knowledge regarding human relations in industry. A start has been made in some industries in that direction. In the coal industry a start is certainly being made, and it will eventually bear fruit. I know that there are people on both sides of industry who pooh-pooh the idea of the study of human relations, regard it as psychological nonsense, and look upon its advocates as cranks. This is an ever-changing world, however, and we must change our ideas to suit the changing circumstances, and I hope that this idea will be welcome to both sides in industry and will be developed in our industries. I should like to say a word about the trade unions and the part which they play in industry. No one, I am sure, will deny that the trade unions are absolutely essential, not only for the well-being of their members, but also for the welfare of the nation as a whole. Without collective bargaining, made possible by the very existence of trade unions, I believe that we should have utter chaos in industry. Our trade union leaders in the main do a good job of work in this respect—a fact sometimes overlooked by many people who ought to know better. There are times, of course, when relations between employers and employees are very strained, particularly when wages and conditions of work are the subjects of dispute. At such times it may be that direct action is taken by the employees and a stoppage of work occurs despite the efforts of the trade unions to bring about a settlement. I would say to all concerned that full use of the conciliation machinery should be made, and that immediately anything in the nature of a grievance arises it should   be dealt with, as one of my hon. Friends has said. If the processes of the existing conciliation machinery are too slow, as is quite often alleged, let us have the machinery examined and overhauled at once with a view to quickening up the processes. There should be no political interference with the present rights and rules of any trade union. Any Government, in my opinion, interfering with the trade unions in that way would do more harm than good. Where there are difficulties in the framework of the trade unions, the trade union members are themselves the only persons capable of getting over them, and interference of any sort from outside would cause very strong resentment in the trade union world.
