gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address this House for the first time, I do so with a considerable amount of trepidation. I represent the Camlachie Division of the City of Glasgow. I may say at the outset that I support wholeheartedly everything that has been said in the Gracious Speech. I should like to take this opportunity of congratulating the mover and the seconder of the Address in reply to the Gracious Speech. Their speeches were dignified, pointed and sincere. My hon. Friend the Member for Rugby (Mr. J. Johnson), in seconding, referred to housing, and said: Like millions of others … I beg and pray that His Majesty's Government will not give way on this, despite all the demands of the Service chiefs for re-armament.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st October, 1950; Vol. 480, c. 13.] I feel confident that that prayer is reiterated by the majority of hon. Members in this House. This brings me to the main point I wish to put before the House. I am seriously perturbed about the absence from the Speech of any reference to the ravages of tuberculosis which are presenting a very serious problem to public authorities all over the country. I have very little Parliamentary experience, but for 30 years I have been a member of the Corporation of the City of Glasgow, which has immense responsibilities for the safeguarding of the health of that great industrial city. For a considerable number of years I was chairman of the public health committee, and I realise that money spent on protecting the lives of the citizens is money well spent and should be viewed as an investment, and certainly not as an extravagance. In Scotland alone there are 41,000 tuberculosis cases and there are more than 3,500 deaths per annum. Among young women the death rate is double that of England. Dr. Horace Joules, Medical Superintendent of the Central Middlesex Hospital, at a conference in Edinburgh last Saturday, said: The T.B. rate in Glasgow is as bad as that in notorious Madrid. The whole population of Glasgow should be radiographed within the next month. I am not going to suggest that that is a practical possibility, but it is the considered opinion of one of the greatest T.B. authorities in this country. He also said:  T.B. should be given the same hospital priority as cancer. Glasgow today has 12,000 tubercular persons on the registers of the public health department. Glasgow has one of the most efficient health departments in the United Kingdom. Unfortunately, they are fighting with their hands tied. Glasgow is Britain's most overcrowded city. Fifty per cent. of the citizens of Glasgow are living in one- and two-apartment dwellings; 1,400 persons are waiting for bed accommodation. I earnestly appeal to the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Minister of Health to consider a crisis expansion of the tuberculosis services. In Glasgow alone 1,000 additional beds and 300 additional nurses are required. I make the suggestion for the consideration of the Ministry of Health that the care of the aged, the chronic sick and infirm should be removed altogether from the regional hospital boards, and that some sort of suitable accommodation, less elaborately equipped and expensively staffed than the modern hospital ward, should be provided. If that were done, a considerable number of additional beds would become available. In the matter of finding sufficient nurses to meet our clamant needs, why not appeal to churches of all denominations and to British Red Cross V.A.D.s to assist in an emergency nursing service? Why not recruit staffs of qualified women to work under the personal supervision of qualified nurses? These women might perform many of the menial functions now being undertaken by qualified nurses. This is not a party question. I want to see it tackled wholeheartedly, with the active support of all parties in this House, in the best interests of the citizens of today and in the best interests of the citizens of tomorrow. The suggestions which I now put before the Government are, first, more priority houses for tubercular patients; second, absolute priority for housing generally in Glasgow on account of 50 per cent. of all houses being of one or two appartments; third, some form of intermediate accommodation between expensive hospital beds and old persons' homes is urgently required; fourth, appeals to churches of all denominations and British Red Cross V.A.D.s to assist in an emergency nursing service. I have presented these facts and brought   forward these suggestions as an inexperienced Member of this House. These are my sincere and honest convictions. If the Government do me the honour of at least considering these suggestions, my maiden speech will not have been made in vain.
