gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I ask the customary indulgence of hon. Members on this the first occasion that I rise to address the House. May I, in advance, ask the indulgence of the House for any controversial points which I may introduce, though if I do I hope that they will be expressed in fair terms. May I refer to some of the remarks of the right hon. Member for Barnet (Mr. Maudling), who was asked very specific questions by hon. Members on this side of the House. The right hon. Gentleman made two brief references, one to incomes policy and one to restrictive practices, and spent the rest of his speech attacking the policy of Her Majesty's Government. Already this year the right hon. Gentleman has had an opportunity to stand at the Treasury Dispatch Box and present a Budget. In April, he had an opportunity to face the problems which we are facing today. Because of his refusal to face them then, the problems today are immeasurably greater. The right hon. Gentleman said that to some extent we had exaggerated the balance of payments problem and that we had spoken of a figure of £800 million. During the last election I never put the figure any higher than £400 million for this year. We recall that in 1961 the deficit on current payments was £264 million. That was quite a different story, even from £700 million, and when one thinks of the emergency measures taken by right hon. and hon. Gentlemen opposite in that year one wonders what they would have had to do were they on these benches today and facing the balance of payments problem that we inherited from them. During the Gracious Speech we heard contradictory voices on this question. We heard the right hon. Member for Sutton Coldfield (Mr. Geoffrey Lloyd) pleading for a high wage economy. We also know the right hon. and learned Member for Wirral (Mr. Selwyn Lloyd). I wonder whether they will get together and decide what incomes policy they wish to recommend. We heard the hon. Member for Louth (Sir C. Osborne), who, during his speech in the debate on the Address, referred back to 1950 and pleaded for a return to the policies   of the late Sir Stafford Cripps. That was 13 years of Toryism ago. It was 16 Budgets ago. It was six Chancellors ago. These are the years that the locust has eaten. We heard the hon. Member for Louth pleading for a return to the Labour Party's policies of before 1950. What has the party opposite been doing during the intervening years? I suppose that it is inevitable that in this debate we shall have a rehash of one or two Budget speeches. Why are we faced with this Finance Bill today'? I suggest that it is because right hon. and hon. Members opposite delayed the election for 12 months. The balance of payments problem has been with us for a long time. During the election we were told that it would be unpatriotic to refer to it. My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister was told that he was talking the nation into a crisis. We know this afternoon who has been talking the nation into a crisis during the last week—those Members on the benches opposite. I suggest that it is some of the ""de Gaullist deputies"" opposite who paint a black picture of the country abroad. This afternoon concern has been expressed for E.F.T.A. This is new. Was any concern for E.F.T.A. shown in 1962 and 1963, when people talked about entering the Common Market? The facts are that the problem goes back to that year. Our difficulties go back to the fact that right hon. and hon. Members opposite failed to carry out their policy of entering the Common Market. Ever since, they have been left with a vacuum in economic policies: they have not known what to do. They wanted to hold an election in 1963 in a blaze of glory after entering the Common Market. After they were kicked in the teeth by de Gaulle, what could they do but hang on, hiding the truth from the electorate, because they knew very well that, if the truth were declared, they would go down in disaster? They have left us to shoulder the burden. We may ask what the right hon. Member for Barnet would have proposed to the House if he had stood at the Dispatch Box today.
