gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I claim the indulgence of this House for my maiden speech, and I hope the House will overlook any indiscretion I may unconsciously commit. I should like to thank the hon. Member for East Flint (Mrs. White) for her kindly reference to myself in her maiden speech and to compliment her on the use of technical terms. I imagine she learned her skill as a result of a debate on steel which I had with her not very long ago. She is correct that I have spent the whole of my working life in the steel industry and in steel mills. We in the steel industry, management and labour alike, are proud and loyal men. There is a general love of the industry among the men who earn their livelihood in it. I am satisfied that the men in the industry have obtained outstanding results not due to any question of nationalisation, but  because the industry has paid them some of the highest wages in the land, and because the industry has as good a management as any industry in the world and has a lifetime's record of mutual confidence between management and men. This record output has been achieved under competitive enterprise. In paying my tribute to the management and men alike I should like to join the hon. Member for Rotherham (Mr. J. Jones) in his tribute to the trade union leaders of bygone days. In my early boyhood in the industry I had good advice from John Hodge, Sir Arthur Pugh and good John Brown, who came back from the United States and told the men the truth about the strip mills when the truth was unpalatable; and also Lincoln Evans, who is one of the outstanding trade union leaders of the country. With regard to the statement by the hon. Member for Rotherham on the freezing of wages in the industry, I think he must be misinformed. The wage structure is based on a sliding scale controlled by the cost of living. I do not think the men themselves are so particularly interested in the nationalisation of steel. They are much more interested in the continued and full working of their plants. Who manages them is not of such great concern to them, because they have no special complaint against the management today and some of them now have some doubt, having looked at experience in other nationalised industries, whether they would be making a good bargain by the change. There is always a great cry about profits but it is well that the facts should be revealed with regard to steel. The rate of profit available per cent. of share capital ran from 2.03 in 1927 to minus 0.38 in 1932. In 1936 it was 4.7, in 1939 5.5 and in 1948 7.9. I have heard a great deal said about the views of men actually operating in the steel industry, but surely we are entitled to take into consideration the views of men in other industries, who are consumers of steel and have some direct interest in what happens to steel. There I would say that there is strong evidence that nationalisation of steel is not of interest to them. The change in the composition of the House is evidence enough. I am anxious not to indulge tonight in a general discussion upon the wisdom or otherwise of nationalising the steel industry because that has been positively effectively done by other more capable men, and in particular by Sir Andrew Duncan, to whom the whole industry owes a great debt of gratitude as well as other speakers on this side of the House. The Minister of Supply has asked for proof that the present totally unsatisfactory position can in fact embarrass the steel industry. The embarrassment is its effect upon our export trade. I feel in my own heart, as one in the industry, that in a very short time steel is going to be once again one of the most competitive commodities in the world. The effect of that will be that articles made of steel in all their multitudinous variety for export will also have to be competitive. Since 1938 there has been a startling change in production in a number of the steel producing countries of the world. For instance Canada, South Africa and Australia who, before the war, were important consumers of British steel are today very nearly self-sufficient and in two or three years may well be competitors of the mother country. That is a very vital thing. In Europe the recent reports of the O.E.E.C. survey have indicated an early possibility of over production of steel, even at this time. Although some Socialists have suggested optimistic figures for British steel, in the enthusiasm of talking of nationalisation of steel a year or two ago, and spoken of a figure as high as 26 million tons, in my humble opinion that was planning gone mad. The steel trade knows perfectly well, from its long experience, that the time has come when the surpluses of these European countries, from which we suffered before, will once again be thrown upon the world markets, probably at uneconomic prices. That was the bitter experience we had between the wars. It has always been the policy of continental steel makers to maintain at all costs a high level of production, and to dump upon the export markets the surplus which they could not dispose of at home, simply because they could then maintain the highest level of production and achieve the lowest cost. Germany is once again rearing its head; and Japan also is revealing itself as a competitor  of Great Britain. I find that galvanised sheets are being exported from Japan to Australia in quite measurable tonnages at this present time, and who can say what the future may bring? There is something more formidable than all this which must be taken into consideration and that is the steel production of the United States of America. With all the humbleness that is in my heart, I ask the House to pay the most careful attention to the few figures which I now give, because there are tremendous potentialities behind them. In 1939 the United States production of steel, expressed in ingots, was 42 million tons. That figure has now increased to the colossal total of 80 million tons of steel a year. In other words, they have practically doubled their production since 1939, and are now producing five times the amount of steel that we are producing in Great Britain. If there is even a moderate recession in industry and trade in the United States the impact of that tonnage thrown upon the world market will be of a formidable character. One of the most important factors now in the production of modern steel is the modern strip mill, which has so often been talked about in public and in the House. It may interest the House to know that at this time the United States has 31 strip mills, with others in the course of erection. We in Great Britain have got only three, one in the course of erection. Strip mills are also going up in Canada, South Africa and Australia. In addition to that, the Minister of Supply must be very well aware that consuming demand of Great Britain is now reaching saturation point; in Britain there are not now so many articles made from steel which are in short supply, and the industry generally is meeting the major portion of the demands made upon it. There is a plain lesson to be learnt from all these figures, and it is this. Once again the great steel makers, men and management alike, will have to face the greatest challenge in their long experience. They are now faced with the additional handicap—I do not blame His Majesty's Government for it, but the facts are there—that since the war the British steel industry has had a definite control upon its exports of steel in the interests of the overall economy of the nation. I personally subscribe, and the nation has to   subscribe to that wise provision, but it has meant that other nations have been able to take care of the markets that were ours before, and even at this stage there is a complete restriction and licensing on the export of steel from this country. The problem of British steel, no matter in whose hands it may be, will be to regain, so far as possible, old markets and to create new ones, and I respectfully submit that the difficulties of that will be much greater under the threat of nationalisation. I will explain that if I may. We have clear evidence from all over the world that merchants in the South Americas, the Far East and everywhere, agents and the like, who have traded with particular companies and had life-long associations with them, are now hesitating about renewing their contracts and agreements. The reason is obvious. They say to themselves: ""If we bind ourselves by agreement to a British steel company at this time we shall find, in a time that we cannot measure, that this industry in Great Britain will be nationalised and we will be frozen out, because the Government of the day will set up some selling organisation and we shall be out in the cold."" Quite sensibly, and as logical business men, they are seeking to find green pastures elsewhere, where there will be safety and no hazards. They are taking no chances, and I sincerely suggest that neither should we. Nothing political should stand in the way of the British steelmakers recovering the markets they have lost, because, quite frankly, the whole of British industrial recovery depends entirely upon steel. Steel production must be maintained at a high level, so that we can get the costs of production and prices down and industries which use steel can compete in the world markets. Cheap steel means success for Great Britain in the competitive position of the world today. I wish also to give another figure. It may not be appreciated that at the present time 47 per cent. of the exports from this country are made up of steel in some kind or another. If we exported at this time as much steel as in 1929, we should be improving the balance of trade by no less than £200 million. For five long years the steel industry has had the threat of  nationalisation hanging over its head. In spite of this, management and men have worked together in good heart alongside one another, united in one common purpose, the best for the steel industry, and that can be continued as their objective at this time. I should like to deal with a number of allegations that have been made by the hon. Member for Hammersmith South (Mr. W. T. Williams), because I feel that they must be answered. I will do so as briefly as I possibly can. Reference was made to the evils and disastrous effects of the restrictions on imported steel to this country before the war. The plain truth of the matter is that as a result of those tariffs the industry was saved from ruin, and I give great credit to the Government that brought them in. He also gave a garbled account of Ebbw Vale. In my humble capacity I had something to do with the building of this great steelworks. As far as the steel industry is concerned, it is solidly behind progressive measures and mechanisation of the industry. We know perfectly well that unless the industry is competitive and has plant of the highest degree of efficiency it is impossible to survive in these modern days, and we have conceived it our duty to see that that is so. The hon. Member also spoke of steel barons. Normally, in a maiden speech I should have made no reply, but men who have taught me my trade are being attacked, and I cannot allow this to go unanswered. The majority of the leaders of the steel industry, men whom I respect and admire, have come from the floor of the mill. They have worked their way up by their skill and ability, and the hon. Member for Rotherham knows that as well as I do. Another controversial element that was introduced was that steel production was down in 1937 or 1938. I am not sure which figure was quoted, but the correct figure is 1938. I know that because I have reason to remember it. Trade conditions at that time were such that the demands for steel were down. These are the things that control the production of steel. They are not controlled by Acts of Parliament. It is an international problem. People buy in the cheapest markets and have no sentiment for anyone or anything. We found that in 1938, but even at that time our percentage of   production was higher than that of the United States. May I make this positive statement, on the part of my colleagues and myself? At no time in the years between the wars did we allow a single wheel or mill to stand idle which we could profitably have operated. What we did with common sense was to see that certain plants were operated fully. In the event of recession in trade we should have seen that the men are distributed in the same fair fashion. Steel is the keystone of national recovery. Disturb it, and the whole nation will suffer —steel played a noble part in the war. It will serve us well in peace if we will leave it in peace.
