gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I understand that it is the generous tradition of the House of Commons to be indulgent to a maiden speaker, and   on this occasion it is certainly indulgence of which I feel most in need. As I understand it, this indulgence is based on a compact by which a maiden speaker avoids controversy, presumably to prevent an unreasonable demand for restraint being placed on hon. Members who might otherwise seek to intervene. Listening to the debate yesterday, I tried very hard to discover an aspect of this discussion on the Common Market upon which it would be possible to be utterly non-controversial, but it did not seem to me that even the complications of which we heard yesterday and again this afternoon of farm gate, threshold, intervention, target and guide prices were entirely above controversy. I hope, then, that the indulgence of the House may prove elastic on this occasion and that I shall be allowed to get away with some mild controversy, provided that what I say proves acceptable or unacceptable equally to hon. Members on both sides of the House. Hon. Members yesterday drew attention to the extent to which the centre of the discussion has shifted in the last twelve months. A year ago, it was the detailed consequences of entry into the Common Market for a wide range of our industries Which most concerned not only Members of the House of Commons but those outside. But now, in the memorable phrase of the right hon. Member for Flint, West (Mr. Birch), the price of tomatoes is happily not generally regarded as the vital factor which will determine the outcome of the negotiations. Not that I imagine that any of us would choose to be contemptuous of the special interests that would be affected by entry; for example, the fishing industry or the growers of Scottish oats, or the Scottish growers of oats, whichever it is. And I confess that here I am fortunate in my constituency interests. Stockton, and Tees-side as a whole, depends substantially on the chemical and heavy engineering industries. There is little doubt that these would be able to compete successfully in the Common Market, with fortunate consequences both for employment and prosperity generally. Certainly I am confident that the high ability, skill and resourcefulness of the people of Stockton would enable them to respond to any challenge  that might be presented to them. They want a dynamic, developing Britain, but they know that the only way to achieve it is through hard work and the full deployment of our talents—not that I would wish to mislead them or anyone else into believing that the Common Market would answer all our economic and industrial problems. Nor would I urge anyone to believe that it would be effective soon enough to relieve the real hardship and distress being caused at present by growing unemployment on Tees-side. This requires action by the Government now. For many years Stockton was served faithfully and well both in the House and constituency by my predecessor, Mr. George Chetwynd, to whose work I should like to pay tribute. Mr. Chetwynd is now Director of the North East Development Council, and in this capacity he is continuing to give his time and effort to the problems of the North East and particularly to the future prosperity of the region. I hope that the tremendous importance of the subject we are now debating will not distract the Government from giving close attention to the immediate problem of more jobs, particularly for school-leavers, in Stockton-on-Tees and throughout the North East. If I were able, as I am not, to be controversial, I would also remind the Government that my constituency of Stockton marches with Middlesbrough, West, which is just across the Tees. Economic prospects aside, much of the debate yesterday, and I suppose that the same will be the case today, turned on the consequences for the Commonwealth of British's entry into the Common Market. On the one hand there seems to be complete agreement that Commonwealth interests must be safeguarded, while on the other there seems to be much disagreement about the consequences for the Commonwealth if Britain enters the Common Market. Regarding the principles involved rather than the deails, I must confess that, having listened carefully to the debate yesterday, it seems to me that some of the opponents of the Common Market are too anxious to put the Commonwealth beyond criticism and to treat its critics as they would treat critics of the Crown. Surely the Commonwealth   is not a fragile plant to be nurtured under glass and always in the sun? If it were, it would not have survived to this day, despite the many changes and strains in the thirty years since the Statute of Westminster. The best friends of the ideals for which the Commonwealth stands are not necessarily those who speak loudest in its praise or take whole pages in daily newspapers to express their views. That the economic interests of the Commonwealth countries must be taken account of we are all agreed, and I am sure that we were greatly impressed by the points made on this by the Leader of the Opposition. However, Britain's obligations regarding trade seem to be not so much obligations towards a collective Commonwealth as collective obligations towards separate Commonwealth countries. It is the separate requirements of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the African territories and the West Indies that concern us. It is bilateral relations which are mainly in this respect at stake. I say this because the identity of the Commonwealth as a whole tends to be lost sight of and because the friends of the Commonwealth—of which I count myself one—cannot have it both ways. Either the Commonwealth is primarily an association of mutual self-interest, or it is bound together principally by ties of kinship, affection and sentiment. If self-interest predominates, then self-interest may lead any Commonwealth country off on its own in quite a different direction at any time. No one has denied that self-interest, as a corollary to sovereignty—which no one denies to be an additional important aspect of the Commonwealth association—has often motivated the actions of separate countries and will certainly do so again. We can raise no objection to this because in a free association freedom may properly be exercised. But if this is the case, while other Commonwealth countries may be expected to express their views, Britain is as free as they are to make her own arrangements—if necessary for entering the Common Market. If, on the other hand, the ties of kinship, affection and sentiment are the most important, can they really be so  easily severed by Britain's association with Europe? Kinship in terms of friends and families in Commonwealth countries will certainly endure—and with it affection. Sentiment is also much too strong to be broken, at least over a generation. Personally, I believe that the factors which bind us together in the Commonwealth are largely of, kinship, affection and sentiment. I have a greater faith and hope than some people that our friends in the Commonwealth will believe that, whatever decision we may make on the Common Market, we shall not sever ourselves completely from those who have previously regarded us as friends. This is not the way I normally find my friends behave when I choose to make other friends in addition to them. The only danger seems to lie in the coming months. If supporters of the Common Market are consistently represented as enemies of the Commonwealth, I fear that opinion in the Commonwealth may be persuaded that they are. In that case, if Britain does enter the damage done to the Commonwealth connection will be hard to repair. Many of the statements expressed by hon. Members on either side have sought to do more to redress the balance in favour of a temperate, middle view. But I believe that there is a special responsibility on all opponents of the Common Market not to claim to be the only true friends of the Commonwealth idea. As the Leader of the Opposition said, we are still pitifully short of the facts on which a final view of the terms of entry must rest. Unless a blank cheque is to be presented to the Government, more information is needed. But, in the last analysis, the final decision will be made on a balance of probabilities. No one will be certain of the outcome of a decision either way. In this sense, whether we enter or not, an act of faith will be required. No one can look into the future. We can only make our individual predictions, and no one will be certain of the outcome of the decision either way. I love this country dearly—its history, traditions and customs—but it has survived and prospered only by being adventurous and bold and more concerned with the future than the past. No one   will deny that the greater adventure now would be for us to take the decision to enter the Common Market. I hope very much that we shall not shy away from it, if the conditions are right, simply out of fear of the unknown or from being too proud to associate with a going concern established without our support. We could at this time be parochial. We could feel that by not going into the Common Market we would retain the ""great"" in Great Britain and by standing alone as a mediator have a very peculiar and special rôle in the world. I do not hold that view. I think that it would be too great a risk to take. I hope that when we approach this problem we shall not be afraid of Europe. I sometimes think that the opponents of Britain's entry on any terms wish not only that the Common Market did not exist but also that Europe did not exist either. We must go beyond this and accept that Europe is there and that the Common Market is there, too. We must then decide if necessary to plunge into it, if the conditions are right, even if it may require an effort of pride and will. Last August, my right hon. Friend the Member for Belper (Mr. G. Brown), in winding up the two-day debate, said, ""We wish the negotiations well. We are not hoping for failure"". Whatever the problems and hesitations, I very much hope the House will echo that view.
