gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
During their recent deliberations, the boundary commissioners decided that the county of Northamptonshire should have an additional parliamentary constituency and created one around the town of Corby. I am the first Member of Parliament ever to be returned for the constituency of Corby. My first pleasant duty is to pay tribute to the two Members of Parliament from whose constituencies the new constituency of Corby was created. Bill Homewood, formerly Member of Parliament for Kettering, came to the House rather later in life than do many, having spent much of his life in the steel industry. It was his misfortune in a way that he was first elected to the House after the decision to close the Corby steelworks had been made. In all matters concerning steel he built a great reputation and was well liked and respected by Members of Parliament on both sides of the House. Of my hon. Friend the Member for Wellingborough (Mr. Fry), from whom I draw nearly half of my constituency, I can only say that I am glad that he is still with us. Everywhere I go I hear nothing but the highest praise for his extraordinary ability as a constituency Member. Corby has been associated with steel. Once, no less than 68 per cent. of the town's working population was dependent, directly or indirectly, on steel. That is no longer so as a result of a decision that was made in 1978. However, Corby has witnessed a resurgence since that devastating decision to close the town's sole industry. It is right that I should pay tribute to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence who, more than anyone else in our capital city, was responsible for the  resurgence of Corby. He made it an assisted area, granted it enterprise zone status and introduced legislation that led to the sale of a substantial number of council houses. Moreover, he altered the instructions to the Commission for the New Towns so that it became the principal body by which the Government funded factory development in Corby. Many new Members of Parliament have been returned as a result of substantial public interest in defence during the election campaign. We enjoyed notable victories in many constituencies. We have had the privilege and pleasure of hearing from my hon. Friend the Member for Renfrew, West and Inverclyde (Mrs. McCurley) whose victory owes a great deal to defence issues. No doubt the same can be said of the success of my hon. Friend the Member for Barrow and Furness (Mr. Franks). There were many other constituencies in which deface was decisive. Although the constituency of Corby is huge — it covers 500 square miles — it has no special defence interest. However, there are two marginal interests—one of which might become important — which it is not inappropriate for me to mention. I share the county boundary between Northamptonshire and Cambridgeshire with my hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Major). That boundary is straddled by the Royal Air Force base at Wittering which is the home of the Harrier. Each day, thousands of my constituents live their lives and work at their occupations under the substantial noise of Harrier pilot training. Few of them object to the noise as they know that the work must be done. However, I cannot overlook the enormous noise which that training necessarily causes. Also on the boundary between Northamptonshire and Cambridgeshire can be found the boundary fence of Molesworth airfield. Today it is derelict, but, if it proves impossible to reach a satisfactory accommodation with the Soviet Union over the deployment of SS20s and cruise and Pershing missiles, in four to five years it will be a significant place. The overwhelming majority of my constituents know that their safety will depend on our ability to withstand and deter the threats and weapons that the Soviet Union is prepared to challenge and blackmail us with. My sense of privilege and occasion at appearing here and speaking for the first time has been tempered with a sense of great sadness because we were treated earlier to a speech to which I reacted with incredulity and dismay. Perhaps I may be pardoned for referring to it in my maiden speech as frivolous. I refer to the speech of the right hon. Member for Lewisham, Deptford (Mr. Silkin). Many Conservative Members have been returned to Parliament because of that frivolous attitude towards defence. The Labour party argued in that way during the election campaign. Perhaps I may be allowed one memory of it. I shall not forget an elderly lady approaching me on almost the first day and saying that she had been a Labour voter all her life but that she would cast her first Conservative vote on 9 June because ""Michael Foot will abolish the Army"". Even if the right hon. Member for Blaenau Gwent (Mr. Foot) did not expressly echo what my hon. Friend the Member for Gainsborough and Horncastle (Mr. Leigh) quoted of Mr. George Lansbury, many people believed that that was the right hon. Gentleman's view. The Opposition have paid a high price for not taking defence seriously. I found the speech of the right hon. Member for Lewisham, Deptford so unsatisfactory   because of the outrageous way in which he chose to refer to our relations with the United States. We are not able to choose the Governments of other countries; we must accept them. I hope that all British Governments will try to treat all other Governments with courtesy and consideration. To speak of the President of the United States, a man who, no doubt, the right hon. Gentleman was hoping to be negotiating with now if his party had won the general election, as ""Reagan this"" and ""Reagan that"" shows a depressing want of the respect which I should have hoped would be shown to leaders of all countries. The problem goes deeper than that. Substantial hostility towards the United States has grown up among a certain section of the British public. I am sure that the overwhelming majority of British people, certainly all of my right hon. and hon. Friends, believe that the peace of the world has been preserved throughout my lifetime by the Atlantic Alliance—the partnership between North America and Western Europe. That is the cornerstone of our hopes for freedom in the future. The right hon. Gentleman said that there is nothing to choose between the two super-powers, that the British fleet is the one that protects the United States, that the United States needs NATO more than NATO needs the United States, and that the United Kingdom was the paymaster of NATO. All of that, and much more in his speech, I found frivolous and outrageous. This is the annual occasion on which we debate the defence Estimates and the defence White Paper. For me, the highlight of the debate so far, as I had expected, was the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot (Mr. Critchley). I hope that the questions that he asked will be answered by the Minister when he replies to the debate. We congratulate the Government on the way in which they have given defence a much greater priority than it was given when the Opposition formed the Treasury Bench, but we fear that the momentum that has built up to improve our armed services will not be sustained in the later part of this decade. Some alarming decisions may have to be made if our economy does not produce much greater growth than has happened during the past decade or more. The crunch will come, and if it comes when there is no substantial economic growth, uncomfortable decisions may have to be taken, as the questions of my hon. Friend the Member for Aldershot implied. The Opposition are entitled to draw attention to these matters, and they will be joined by many on these Benches who have the interests and security of our country at heart. I have a personal reason for watching the performance of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State, because my brother is the commanding officer of his own battalion. Many issues have been raised in this debate, and it is no job of mine to reply to them. If I was saddened by the speech of the right hon. Member for Lewisham, Deptford I was tantalised by that of the hon. Member for Houghton and Washington (Mr. Boyes), who told us that if he has anything to do with the next election the Opposition will fight on the same defence policies as they did in the last election. Frankly, every Conservative Member would welcome that. If the Opposition fight on the same defence platform as they did last time, they will have learned nothing. They will have shown that they know nothing, and do not deserve the approbation of our people. What is at stake in defence debates is the peace of our continent and the world. We on this side will ensure that Her Majesty's Ministers see that as the highest priority in the coming four to five years.
