gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
As is customary in making a maiden speech, I ask the indulgence of the Committee. I wish to raise three matters which, to a large extent, are non-controversial. I wish to begin by putting in a plea for one class of taxpayers, and that is those who have spent their whole working life in the service of the Government and are now attempting to eke out an existence on their pensions. These people, owing to the very high increase in the cost of living and to the high rate of taxation, are in very dire circumstances. I can assure the Chancellor that unless something can be done to assist them it will lead to the inevitable result that Government service will not be able in future to recruit the right type of man. They will not be able to recruit the right type of man unless he can look forward on his retirement to being able to live up to a reasonable standard of living. It must not be forgotten that many of those who have retired have a position to keep up. I am not asking for any tax concesssions, but that Members should  bear in mind that something must be done for these retired people or the Civil Service is bound to deteriorate. I want to turn to the ordinary taxpayer, the taxpayer who finds himself at variance with his local inspector of taxes. Such a man is often faced with having to decide whether to go to the courts and attempt at great expense to take on the Crown with all its might. There are many cases where there is plenty of authority and the taxpayer, if he seeks advice, can find out whether he has a reasonable chance of success. There is clearly no hardship in these cases, but there are many cases, owing to the present difficulties of interpreting the Income Tax laws, where the Crown want a decision by the courts. In these, the un- fortunate taxpayer finds himself in the position of having to fight a case to enable the Government to interpret their own Acts. I ask the Chancellor to consider whether some procedure could not be laid down whereby it would be possible in suitable cases to apply to the Attorney-General to give a fiat that the expenses should be paid by the Crown where an important point of law is to be brought before the courts. From my own professional experience, and I am sure it is the experience of other members who belong to the same profession, great hardship can easily arise in these cases. This concession would cost very little and would be a great blessing to many people. My next point is perhaps a rather more controversial one, and arises from the Chancellor's proposals to increase the price of petrol and the tax on commercial vehicles. I hope the Government will give fresh consideration to this matter, particularly from the point of view of the small retail trader. The small retail trader is not having an easy task today. He can survive only by running his business economically and on quick delivery lines. It is essential for him to have an up-to-date and economic vehicle for his business. This proposal to increase the Purchase Tax on commercial vehicles and the taxation on petrol will put a great number of small traders out of business. I hope the Chancellor of the Exchequer will see whether he cannot give some rebate to this class of the community. I wish to refer to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer about   housing. He has assured us that the Government now intend to give special preference to housing in their capital investment programme. We all welcome that, but I hope that the Chancellor will ask the Ministry of Health to give preferential treatment to the building of houses in their Department. I am convinced that unless we provide this social service of housing and houses in reasonable quantities, we are opening wide the gates to a further increase of Communism in this country.
