gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is, perhaps, fortunate, in the light of the mood of the House, that I, too, welcome the Bill, but I hope to take advantage of the invitation of the Minister to make a few suggestions which, I hope, if they lack the wisdom and experience of my predecessor as Member for Parliament for Kensington, South, at least will prove useful. If they do not, I shall have to seek the traditional indulgence of the House and of my right hon. Friend. No doubt the most newsworthy portion of the Bill, as its name implies, is Part I, which relates to caravans, but I welcome in particular Part II, which has a much wider range. I do not think it is putting it too high to say that existing provisions have practically ground to a standstill because of delay and expense and because they are thoroughly impracticable. They have indeed caught the unfortunate, while many a rascal slipped through the net. I have only three suggestions to make, and the first two can be put quite shortly. I suggest to the Minister that it is unfortunate that, in an excellent endeavour to achieve one channel of appeal and the settlement of disputes in Part II, he should confine the method by which the High Court can deal with these matters, because there are a number of possible methods by which the court can deal with them, some of which might well be both cheaper and quicker than the remedy laid down in the Bill. I hope that at a later stage the right hon. Gentleman will consider suggestions on these lines, and, similarly, that he will consider widening the scope of some of the Clauses after Clause 26, which appear to be directed primarily, at any rate, at owners who, generally, are not those who will be carrying out any development. It will be the occupiers. Therefore, I hope that perhaps my right hon. Friend may be able to have second thoughts about that. The most important factor to which I should like to draw attention is that the improved procedure for the enforcement notices is likely to be very largely nullified unless it is possible to achieve   some expedited hearing by the Minister's inspectors and a decision by his Department. At the present time, no doubt through no fault of the Minister, it takes anything up to four or five months to get a decision, and in many cases I do not doubt that is necessary. I suggest, however, that it cannot be beyond the wit of man to achieve a more expeditious system in what I would call certified cases, where it is clear that a new development has taken place which may well be objectionable. That is not to be confused with the many cases where haste may not be welcomed. There are cases where a local authority wants to serve an enforcement notice, and is extremely glad, as is the owner of the site, that there may be some delay in having a hearing. There may be a number of reasons for that, but the reason I stress this aspect in my own case, apart from its general importance in the whole country, is that, in my own constituency, and even more so in the area of West London, we are suffering from a major social evil which this Clause, and to some extent Part I, sets out to meet. I refer to the so-called social clubs, which are appalling drinking dens, which are springing up and which take so long to close that they are in fact a major social factor in racial troubles and vicious practices of every kind. It must be possible that, when the local authority serves an enforcement notice, that sort of case can be heard by the Minister and decided in a matter, if not of days, at any rate of weeks. Nobody has challenged the enormous harm which this sort of development is causing. We should indeed be shedding crocodile tears if, having substantial powers to mitigate, if not stop, that evil, we disregarded it because to deal with it might be administratively difficult. Therefore, I urge as vehemently as I can that a system of expedited hearings of appeals in respect of enforcement notices should be instituted by the Minister as quickly as he possibly can. I have one final word to address to the House on the caravan aspect, and here I take up a point made by the hon. Member for Anglesey (Mr. C. Hughes). I would press upon the Minister the need for controlling caravans sited in some of the more beautiful parts of our coun-  try, and would point out to him that, from a caravan site owner's point of view, there could be no more delectable pot of honey than an area of great natural beauty or scenic value, or, indeed, a National Park. That is a joy beyond all other joys, for a variety of reasons, but particularly the financial one. I should be glad if the Minister could make some statement, as strong as his statement about the green belts round London and the major towns, that only overwhelming circumstances will induce him to permit an area of great natural beauty to be used for caravans and other objects.
