gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I have been in the House just over 40 days, and I say with the greatest respect that if always, when I speak, I follow such a courageous speech as that by the right hon. Member for Hampstead (Mr. Brooke) to which we have just listened I shall be very happy indeed. I represent Coventry, South, an outstanding constituency, if I may say such a thing about my own constituency. I doubt whether there is another hon. Member in the House who can say that since the war there has been built in his constituency a civic theatre, a new cathedral and a great art gallery. I doubt very much whether there is another hon. Member who can say that in his constituency there has been built a swimming pool of Olympic proportions and a new university. I once heard a great American say that Coventry is a city which has taken its eyes from the ground.  I am very proud indeed to be able to say that I represent a Coventry constituency, that I have worked in a Coventry constituency and that I live in a Coventry constituency. In my constituency, during the last 12 years or so, I have, in the course of my professional duties, represented seven persons charged with murder. Most of us, when we come to vote tonight, as was suggested by the right hon. and learned Member for Epsom (Sir P. Rawlinson), will decide how to vote in the light of our experience. A solicitor defending a man on a murder charge will, if he is doing his job properly, interview not only the defendant but the man's family, employers and friends. He finds out all that he possibly can about the individual he represents. Indeed, it is true to say that the solicitor probably knows more about the man charged with murder than anyone else in the case. In the light of my experience of interviewing these men I have come to the conclusion that the deterrent is of no value whatsoever. The men I have represented were a true cross-section. Their ages varied from 18 plus to the middle 40s. Their occupations varied from a professional man to a coal miner to someone who was simply unemployed. As to previous criminal records, three were without any previous convictions, one had been convicted of a small minor offence and three had been convicted of offences involving violence. Their victims varied from a parent to a stranger to a man who otherwise might have been a friend. But there was, I am certain, one common factor throughout those seven men and the crimes they committed. It was simply that not one of them gave a single or second thought to the punishment that might be received as a result of the commission of the crime. I often feel that those who hold that the death penalty is a deterrent should extend its application a little further, because one has only to consider the offence of serious wounding to realise how near that sometimes comes to murder. If the wound were, for instance, a little higher, or a little lower, or a little deeper, instead of merely being wounding it would be simple murder. I often think that serious cases of wounding are   murder but for the grace of God or by sheer fluke. If those who protest that the deterrent is important were logical, they would wish to extend it to more crimes and not restrict it to murder. I am satisfied, however, in the light of my own experience, that punishment is not a deterrent at all in these matters. Indeed, the way to bring about a reduction in serious crime is by preventing it, not punishing it. That is the way these matters should be attended to. But even if I thought that the death penalty were somehow a deterrent, there is another matter which, in the light of my experience, I would consider before I would agree to the death penalty being retained for any purpose. Of those I represented, only one finished in the condemned cell and, in accordance with my instructions, it was necessary for me to visit him there. It is not, as one can easily understand, a pleasant task to interview a condemned man in his cell. If one goes to the deathbed of a man old in years, with life slowly ebbing away from him, one can think, ""He has had a good innings and is ebbing away slowly but peacefully"". But when one is dealing with a young man, full of life and in full vigour, there is no redeeming feature at all in talking to him. My task was comparatively simple because I had to talk to him about the hope of a reprieve and how we could set about it. The interview lasted half an hour, but I do not mind acknowledging that I was glad when it was over. Yet, when I left the cell, I left behind me two warders whose duty it was, along with others assigned to the task, to be with this man for his waiting, for his hoping, until the day of execution. Their job, in a nutshell, was to see that he did not die before his appointed time. As I came out of that prison, I wondered what these warders found to talk about, hour in, hour out, with a young man condemned to death. I thought to myself that, if they had any humanity within them at all, it must be purgatory to carry out such a duty. In my professional duties I often go into prisons. I am not one of those who subcribe to the view that warders are inhuman, hard men. I am satisfied that, while some may qualify for this phrase, by and large they are a decent body of men  doing a difficult task in difficult circumstances, generally dealing with the end product of a penal system that is as old and out of date as the buildings in which they operate. As I left the prison, therefore, I asked myself how these human beings managed throughout the three weeks or so between sentence and execution. In the event, however, the man I was representing was reprieved, but we ought to look at the subject in this way: the executioner has a difficult task to carry out, but his task is really that of sudden death. The burden that is placed upon the warders in these cases is not that of sudden death, but of slow, lingering extinction. So, tonight, I would say this: I am very glad indeed, after the years that have gone by since that experience, to have the chance to see to it that no more shall we place upon our prison officers a burden of that sort. I am grateful to the House for listening to me so patiently.
