gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to speak for the first time for the constituency and the city and county of Londonderry—and that is a heavy responsibility for any hon. Member, because Londonderry is no ordinary constituency. Londonderry is the place where it all began and it is still the place where murder and arson continue. The constituency is large in area but by Northern Ireland standards its numbers are only average. There are only about 93,000 electors. The main centres of population are the city itself and the town of Coleraine. There are also within the constituency several smaller towns and many villages and hamlets. My constituency is split in two by the Sperrin Mountains. The principal industry is farming and there is a number of factories producing mainly man-made fibres, as well as a number of more traditional industries. It is an area in which the inhabitants have a great pride, and I am proud to represent them. My predecessor, who represented Londonderry for many years, was Mr. Robin Chichester-Clark, who has, I know, many friends in the House. No doubt he would still be its representative if it were not for the fact that he supported in this House policies regarding Northern Ireland which the majority   of his electors rejected. The view of the constituency was democratically demonstrated on 28th February, and the general view of the inhabitants will now be expressed in this honourable House. Practically every town and village in the county of Londonderry has felt the icy fear that stalks the whole province. The small town of Kilrea, for instance, is reputed to have had more bombs per head of the population than any other town in Ulster. A walk or a drive through it by any hon. Member will soon convince him of the accuracy of this statement. At the other end of the constituency is Londonderry City itself, which many of us call the maiden city. It is, I fear, a maiden no longer, because it has been ravaged by murder, by arson, by bomb and by bullet, by violence of every description. Death and terror have been constant companions in its streets. The London companies built the city of Londonderry in centuries past. The city in which we now sit is the mother of Londonderry; I fear that it is the mother of a badly battered baby. The citizens of Londonderry hold the Members of this House and them alone responsible for the conditions in their city, because this is the House that made the policies that brought these things to pass. I was appalled to hear the Secretary of State talk of withdrawing troops from that town. Last week Londonderry had several major incidents of terror that were carried out with an awsome ferocity and inhumanity that the Members here cannot understand or refuse to understand. Londonderry needs not less protection, but more; the border can be easily crossed. One of my constituents told me recently of crossing the border to Eire and returning. His car was searched by the Army as he entered the South but not when he returned. I was not aware that the IRA was carting explosives out of Northern Ireland. My constituent and I would like to know the reason for this difference in searching. Within the city there has always been and still is a strong IRA element, and a lowering of troop numbers means that this body of evil men can say that their actions against this Government are succeeding; some people will believe them,  and the murderers' strength will grow apace. At the end of the day the situation will be worse than it was at the start. I view the further changes in the police with dismay and consider them no more than another sop to the enemies of that force. All earlier acts of appeasement have failed. Why should this one succeed? This House over the years has proceeded with a course of action with regard to Northern Ireland which finally produced the present government arrangements. Throughout the gestation, the Members here were continual in their cry that it was for the people of Northern Ireland to settle their own affairs. This has been repeated today by many hon. Members. In one respect the Ulster folk have settled their own problems. They have rejected your decisions, and they have rejected them by the democratic process on 28th February. Much play has also been made today with the border poll and the Assembly election results. The border poll did not support or reject any system of government in Northern Ireland. It simply stated a general principle. The Assembly elections were fought before the shape of Sunningdale became clear, and the election was the first chance that Ulster people had to declare their will—and they did so loud and clear. No matter how steadfastly the Members of this House look the other way, facts are facts and they will some day have to face them. Talk of support for the Assembly is hollow when the people have spoken against it. We have been told today that a Government need three or four years to do their work and bring their policies into practice. Are we to understand that the main Opposition party here will not try to remove the present Government from office for at least three years? Yet this should be their line of action if that reasoning were correct. It was admitted today that the parents, churches and schools no longer control the young in Northern Ireland. If that is not an admission of policy failure, in God's name what is? I was a farmer. I was happy in my work and I would have been glad to remain one of those unknown men in muddy boots who feed this kingdom, but   a minority of my neighbours wanted to take away my birthright as a Briton and to that action I objected. My objections have brought me here to speak for a slandered people, for a slandered country, for a slandered policy, to express the anger of the people whose views have been far too often ignored, to tell this House of the bitter fury I have often felt as I walked with broken glass crunching under by feet to watch a close friend's house flame like a great open fire. Have hon. Members of this House ever seen that? [An hon. Member: ""Yes.""] I have seen my own property go up in flames. Have hon. Members ever seen that? It is even worse to watch the grave-digger shovel dirt and muck on a good man's coffin. I cannot say shovelled on his face, because a shotgun does not leave a face at 10 yards. I am a farmer. I am an honest and a blunt man. I heard a friend of the hon. Member for Belfast, West (Mr. Fitt) say today that he saw another hon. Member with blood streaming down his face. My constituents in Londonderry have often told me that it was one of the hon. Member's own supporters who was the cause of the blood. And that same hon. Member to whom I refer was the very man who called the mobs on to the streets of Belfast to take the pressure off the rebels in Londonderry. That is something that we will neither forgive nor forget, for we hold him and his friends largely responsible for the murder and the terror in our streets and our villages and the blood that runs in every gutter in Ulster. This honourable House in its wisdom cheered Chamberlain many years ago when he came back from Munich. It rejected him a few years later. It cheered also, in more recent times, a dear little girl from Cookstown. When I mention her name to hon. Members today, I am met with nothing but the shuffling feet and downcast eyes like village urchins caught in the farmer's orchard. I say: ""Gentleman, you are not invincible. You are not beyond reproach. You are not repository of all the wisdom in this nation."" We have heard talk today of the transfer of the political prisoners. I know no political prisoners. I know the Price sisters as people who took part in the murder of the citizens  of this nation, and for them I have neither respect nor sympathy. In accord with the traditions of this place, I have not been too controversial in what I have said. No doubt I shall rise to speak again and I shall speak more bitterly and more vehemently. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker and hon. Members, for your tolerance of me.
