gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address this Assembly for the first time, may I ask for the tolerance and consideration that I have observed is traditionally accorded to new Members? I venture to intervene in this Debate because it was my fortune during the war to serve in the Army for three and a half years as a private soldier, and for a considerably less time as a very junior officer. During my experiences I had British Army officers under observation and came to certain conclusions about  them. I was very interested in what my right hon. Friend had to say about the training of officers for the future Army. My recollection goes back to the early years of the war, when the chief qualification for becoming even a junior officer in the Army was that one should have had the right 'social background, and have been to the right school. There was an idea abroad in those quarters that had the power to grant these commissions that that difficult thing to define, leadership, was the exclusive possession of the ex-public schoolboy. I remember some of my colleagues who, early in the war, felt themselves called upon to assume the responsibility of leadership, and were asked such questions as, ""What school did you go to?"" ""What games do you play?"" The absurd position was reached where some people may have been accepted for training as officers on the basis of the superior snob appeal of playing rugger rather than soccer. Many people have since passed similar observations. It was, therefore, with great pleasure that I heard my right hon. Friend say today that a spell in the ranks — I hope a considerable spell— will be insisted upon for all future officers for our Army of the future. With the development, in the later stages of the war, of the War Office Selection Board, there was an improvement in the method of selecting officer material. It had its limitations, many of us had lots of fun at its expense, but it seemed to me a real attempt to assess character. It had its deficiencies but was a step forward. I regret that I must record my opinion that this material so selected was often not used to the best advantage at the 0.C.T.Us. that were provided. Here I would put in a plea that the Minister will consider the type of material his Department employs in the staffing of O.C.T.Us. I remember that the O.C.T.U. I attended was staffed by a lot of really good chaps, but many of them were convalescent officers recovering from injuries; some of them were ""displaced persons,"" the sort of people who thought they had to retain their temporary rank until they got another appointment. Although many of them were excellent soldiers and good fellows, all too often, they lacked the qualifications necessary for a teacher. There is a great difference between the man who is a first-rate soldier and the   man who is a good teacher, so I hope that whatever the future of British Army O.C.T.Us. may be, my right hon. Friend will bear in mind the need to consider above all, in the staffing of these 0.C.T.Us., the qualifications of the staff as teachers. I cannot leave this point without telling a story of my own platoon officer at O.C.T.U., who gave a very adverse report at the end of one month on a cadet whom most of us believed was excellent material. He gave a report in which he said that he was sadly lacking in regimental qualities. This cadet, a Very earnest fellow, was very put out, and ventured to approach the platoon officer with a view to elucidating what he meant by ""lacking in regimental qualities."" He was told by this man, who had the responsibility for this squad, that he did not look the part. So this cadet turned to the platoon officer and said, ""Is there anything in my work, or behaviour, or in anything I have done at the O.C.T.U. that leads you to that conclusion? ""The reply was, '' No, there is nothing special, but, you know, you do not walk about correctly. You just do not look the part"" I suggest, with great respect, and realising all the difficulties of wartime and the limitations imposed upon the people who choose the staffs, that we should, above all, bear in mind the need for having good teachers in these very responsible positions. These very important positions must, in the future, be filled by men who certainly have ability and intelligence, and they must be men of integrity. These qualities are not confined to any one class. On the contrary, the war has demonstrated up to the hilt that these qualities are to be found among people of all classes of the British people. My belief in respect to selecting officer material is in the retention of that type of Selection Board which will have no special or primary regard to a man's social background, but to the record he has from his other rank service in the Army, and secondly, as I have perhaps over-emphasised, for the staffing of O.C.T.U.s by people who are what I call teachers. I turn to something quite different, a question which has exercised my mind, and no doubt the minds of many other  hon. Members, that of the non-payment of dependants' allowances to dependants of soldiers who are serving detention. By the present system, great hardship is inflicted on the families of soldiers who are in detention by the withholding of the Army family allowances. It may be that some of the recent disturbances at Northallerton and Aldershot are to be accounted for by this withholding of allowances to families of soldiers sentenced to detention. It is humiliating for the wife of a soldier, through no fault of her own, but through his misdemeanour, to have to apply to the local authority for public assistance, and to be exposed among her neighbours as one who has to apply for charity. This is surely gross injustice? It may be that the objection will be made that, if a civilian commits a crime and is sentenced to imprisonment, his wife and children certainly suffer economic hardship as a result. I suggest that the two cases cannot be put on the same level, because many of the soldiers are in detention today as a result of committing a misdemeanour under the heavy pressure of abnormal circumstances. I wish to bring out that point because I do not think that the soldier can be put on the same level as one who commits a civilian crime. I would ask my right hon. Friend and the Government to give some consideration to this type of case, and to remove from innocent women and children, who are dependants of soldiers who have admittedly done wrong the stigma of having to apply to the local authority for what they all too often mistakenly believe is charity.
