gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In accordance with the long-established custom of this House, I would ask for its indulgence today, and I would ask also for patience and for the forgiveness of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Hillhead (Mr. J. S. C. Reid), who has just spoken, if I do not follow him through the sad tale of tartan tribulation which he has just presented to us. It is a rather familiar tale to me, and I would merely draw the attention of the right hon. and learned Gentleman to the fact that, for me, that matter was decided on 6th December by the people of Kilmarnock, when a Scottish Nationalist, who had the benefit of sincerity in what he was preaching, lost his deposit. It is not really fair to say that I represent merely the people of Kilmarnock, because that scattered Division of 200 square miles covers some of the most historic lands of Scotland, taking in large burghs, small burghs and rural villages from Fen-wick as far as Moscow, and I would remind hon. Members opposite that I shall take great exception to hearing anyone here again describe any hon. Member other than myself as representing the people of Moscow. The background of these people and the history of that part of Ayrshire has been summed up by Robert Burns himself in ""Scots Wha Hae'."" Liberty has been  in their every blow. Men from those fields, hills and valleys fought with Wallace, when the local gentry were still trying to make up their minds which side was going to win. They fought with Bruce, and the heather of the Highlands around Fenwick was made even redder by the blood of the Covenanters who fought for religious liberty. It was in Ayrshire, and in that part of Ayrshire at Mauchline that Robert Burns lived and farmed, and it was in Kilmarnock that his poems were first printed. The people living in a land with such a rich historical background could only, and naturally, be as progressive-minded as they are. Their ancestors fought for national and religious liberty, they fought for political liberty and for all those reasons in the recent war the people of Kilmarnock fought for the liberty of Britain. They welcome this Bill, because they see in it, once again. a chance to free Scotland economically, a chance to free Scotland from Scottish landlords. There is nothing in Scottish landlords which makes them intrinsically better than English landlords. In fact they very often are the same people. The Marquess of Bute, who can sell Cardiff for £20 million, is the same Marquess of Bute who can hold up housing in Rothesay and Cumnock or even in my own native town of Ayr. These people have taken their toll of Scottish industry, and of private enterprise which is so dear to the hearts of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and I sometimes wondered, during the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, whether he was expressing the sentiments of Scottish Unionists or of Land Unionists. Scottish landlords have reaped benefits from enterprises to which they did not contribute one hour's labour or even a single idea. They have for generations, held to ransom the local authorities whenever land was needed to build Scottish houses, to build Scottish schools or erect Scottish hospitals. I cannot see any indication in this. Bill of injustice to impoverished Scottish landlords, nor do the people of Kilmarnock. The hon. and gallant Member for Ayr Burghs (Sir T. Moore) was telling us week ago—I am sorry he is not in his place—about the Ayrshire Electricity Bill. The hon. and gallant Member would also know that last week the Ayrshire Electricity Board, in order to get a piece of property for a development at Mauchline,   were asked to pay £1,250 per acre. Once again, the enterprise of a local authority was being soaked by our Scottish landowners. Scotland has been planned before. We have known planning in Scotland before this, and we have known it only too well. I heard a speech in this House by the hon. Member for South Edinburgh (Sir W. Darling), who usually decorates a back bench on the other side of the House, in which he seemed to be suggesting that soldiers who came from Scotland, and the men who worked throughout the war in Scotland, and who helped to win that war, were men produced by a planless Scotland. It was a planned Scotland, but a chaotically-planned Scotland, and the reason for the war was the same reason of chaotic planning: and it was in spite of that chaotic planning, that these men could shoulder the burdens and responsibilities of their nationhood. The desolation of the Scottish Highlands was planned by feudal irresponsibility. The shims of Glasgow were planned, not to meet the needs of the people of Glasgow, but to meet the demands of the landowners. I can well remember myself, as a schoolmaster in that part of Glasgow which is represented by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Gorbals (Mr. Buchanan), that that school was once set among fields, but in 50 years that district had become a slum. I looked out of one window across to an ironworks, pouring out 24 hours a day noxious fumes into the air which those people breathed. I could see from another window the tomb of Sir Thomas Lipton. From another window I was stared at. There was an old woman living in a tenement adjoining my classroom who just sat for about two hours every morning looking in, from a top storey window of one of Glasgow's splendidly planned tenements. The ""Noon Record"" usually arrived at about 12 o'clock, and I was almost able to help her pick out the winners, so close was the tenement to the classroom. Such were the conditions of those schools, despite the opportunity open to the friends of the right hon. and learned Gentleman to do something about planning for that part of Scotland. The very names of the streets round about were indicative of what the district was like originally. There were such names as ""Silver Fir Street,"" ""Pine Street,"" ""Orchard Street,"" and so on. At one time, the place had been  a garden, but, thanks to bad planning, it had become a slum. I feel that what that kind of planning lacked was moral consciousness and social purpose. This Bill accepts right away the moral and social responsibility to plan the land of Scotland in order to meet the needs of Scotland and of the Scottish people. I shall be very interested to see these plans, because I do not want the planning to he the uniform sort of the formula planners. If the planners of Scotland's future are to do justice to the Scottish people, they must plan from the past, from Scottish history, in Scottish character, and in accordance with the needs of the community. They must start first with the family; they must give the family light and air, and allow it to breathe freely in open spaces. If possible, they must also plan to allow for a life of culture and of leisure within the communities which are now to be built. We want nothing stereotyped, nothing hard, cheap and shoddy in our planning of the new Scotland. We want something worthy of the people of Scotland. It was Robert Burns who declared that he hoped to do something To preserve the dignity of man, with soul erect. This Bill gives us the opportunity to plan a Scotland in which man can have a soul; let that soul be erect. We are not so proud of our Scottish towns as we see them today, as we are of our Scottish scenery. It was not Scotsmen who made the Scottish scenery, and we often see the difference where the hand of God meets the hand of man when we go into Scottish towns. There are parts of Scotland of which every Scotsman should be thoroughly ashamed. We must wipe out the indignities of the past, but we must see that all the best of the past which was ours is retained, and we must build and expand in a way that is characteristic of Scotland. If we do that, we shall have what all Scotsmen want, a Scotland in which men can preserve their dignity and their decency.
