gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I must ask the indulgence of the House while I make this, my maiden speech. I represent a Scottish division, although I happen to be an Englishman, and I was rather horrified to hear certain Tory Members talking about the housing conditions in Scotland, because my division of West Fife has, I suppose, some of the worst housing conditions in Britain. These are, it seems to me, a legacy not of the last four and a half years but of the last 100 years. In going around that division since 1945 and in the course of the election campaign, I have been amazed at the wonderful transformation that has taken place in four short years. We are told that the waiting lists are longer than ever. Of course they are, and the reasons for it are perfectly obvious. The simple fact is that because of full employment young people are marrying earlier in life: in most cases, both the man and his young wife are working, and have therefore a steady guaranteed income of something like at least £10 per week, so that the demand for housing is much greater now than it ever was in the pre-war years. It will be within the memory of some of the older Members that a Tory Minister of Health asserted that It was a comparatively recent development for a young married couple to want a house of their own. Well, I am one of those young married people who now have houses of their own. I am 32, and I have lived in a house  with a bathroom for only two years out of the 32. There is not a single house going up anywhere in Britain today without a bathroom. That, surely, is a revolution in itself. That is the measure of the progress that we have made in housing since 1945, and for anyone to play down that achievement—particularly anyone on the Opposition benches —is the essence of cant and hypocrisy. Let me now refer to the glib Tory statements which are frequently made about various reforms that have been introduced since 1945, and the generalisations which are so commonly made from time to time on their election platforms. ""Set the people free,"" we are told, and when we ask, ""Which people shall we set free?"" back come the Tories on their hoardings saying, ""Set the builders free."" According to the Girdwood Committee on housing costs, a post-war three-bedroomed house costs about £1,250 to erect, which means that if that house were put up for sale there would be an initial deposit of £200, plus the building society payments for 20 or 25 years, plus the costs of repair and maintenance. That is the kind of thing that we young working people cannot afford to countenance. Suppose that house were for renting, the annual rent of a house costing £1,250 to erect, would be about £125, or £2 8s. a week, plus rates of 6s. or 7s. per week on top of that, so that a couple would be expected to pay about £2 15s. per week if the builders were set free. I hope that we on this side of the House will resist that kind of propaganda and policy with all the strength at our disposal. Another Measure contained in the ""trivial"" document to which the hon. Member for Kingston-upon-Thames (Mr. Boyd-Carpenter) referred is the maintenance of full employment. Is that a trivial matter? We believe that that is the basic domestic issue, and we are resolved to maintain full employment by suitable controls and by economic planning, both of which are deplored by the Opposition, whatever they might say to the contrary. From my own division I can cite an example of what might happen under a Tory Government. At the moment the Lanarkshire coalfield is declining while the Fifeshire coalfield is developing, but by conscious planning there is a deliberate and orderly   movement of Lanarkshire miners into the Fifeshire coalfield, while at the same time there is a housing priority for the trans ferred Lanarkshire miners. Those who, for one reason or another, cannot move are being provided with industries under the Control of Location of Industries Act: industries are going into Lanarkshire, and so full employment is being maintained there although the coalfield is declining, while at the same time the Fifeshire coalfield is being developed as much as possible. Surely that kind of planning is in the interests of the ordinary people. Had that movement gone on under a Tory Government, in the first place it would not have been planned, and the Lanarkshire miners who moved to Fifeshire would be fighting for houses in a place where there was not priority for them; and in the second place, those who could not leave Lanarkshire would have been derelict, and there would have been a distressed area—something with which I, myself, am well acquainted. I have very little Parliamentary experience, but I have got a great deal of other experience which hon. Members opposite have not got. I have lived in a slum for 30 years. A former slum dweller is now Minister of Health, and it takes a former slum dweller to understand their problems. I do ask hon. Members not to try to make political capital out of the housing needs of our people. We all know it is a problem which will take years to solve, but trying to take the most impartial view I can, I am quite sure that we are on the right road, that the people who most need the houses are getting houses, and that economic and social security is being given to those who need it most, and who have had so little in the years gone by. We are unapologetic for the contents of the Gracious Speech. I believe that in the phrase which says that all measures will be taken to guarantee full employment and the national well-being lies a valuable loop-hole. I believe that, although this slender document might smell of kid gloves, the kid gloves conceal a wonderful fistful of solid Socialism.
