gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
It is with no simulated diffidence that I ask for your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, and that of the House, in speaking here for the first time. I think it is common ground between the two sides of the House that the police forces of this country must retain their local character, but I think the first question we have to ask ourselves on this Bill is, in what respect is this local character threatened? I myself have lived most of my life in a non-county borough which, for police purposes, has been part of a county area, and I do not believe that the administration in the non-county boroughs that are taken over will differ in any material respect, from the point of  view of the individual concerned in dealing with the police, from what has gone before. I believe that in a borough such as that in which I live, if the police are asked about individuals, the same sort of answer would be given as would be given about me, whether it was a non-county borough and part of a county police force or whether it was a county borough, namely, that ""his parents were respectable, and his politics were not."" It is perfectly true that it is important to keep the local character, but, if the House will pardon a rather platitudinous statement, it is also important to remember that the maintenance of order throughout the country is a question of national importance, and that it is of vital importance to the administration of the police in this country that parochial considerations should not be allowed to dominate the scene. I myself have some very unhappy recollections from the year 1940, when I was serving in a very junior capacity in the War Office, and part of my duties consisted of dealing with complaints from hon. Members of this House that constituents of theirs had been refused permission to join the Home Guard. In each case the basis of refusal was that reference had been made to the local police and that the reference was not satisfactory. Complaints became so many and so vociferous that a fairly detailed inquiry had to be made, and in some cases—in a relatively few cases—the ground of objection to those individuals had been of a purely frivolous character. We were told in one case that the applicant's wife had been known to attend Communist meetings. Sitting on this side of the House, I suppose I shall be accused of an excessive prejudice in favour of home guards whose wives attended Communist meetings, but the officer who at the time time was working with me in dealing with those cases now sits on the other side of the House and he experienced precisely the same trouble, only rather more of it than I myself. I do not remember in sufficient detail, nor would I tell the House if I did, where those very unsatisfactory cases came from, but my impression is that they came from areas which were very small—just the kind of areas of which the Home Secretary spoke when he said that the forces were too small to allow reasonable conditions from the point of view of promotion for keen men, and   where the men at the head were men who in a larger force would not be given the responsibility accorded them under the present system. In this matter it is quite obvious, and I think it is absolutely common ground between the two sides of the House, that what we need is to keep a wise balance between the two desiderata, local knowledge and a sense of national responsibility. It is perfectly clear however from my own experience and that of a number of other hon. Members that a considerable amount of absolutely genuine misapprehension, and I emphasise the word misapprehension, is entertained about Clause 3 of the Bill. When one reads the words of Clause 3, it seems to me that the opening of the first Subsection puts the emphasis rather on the wrong foot. It gives a picture which I think has misled some local authorities, a picture, though no experienced person would accept it, of a Secretary of State sitting in the Home Office and deciding what he wanted to do with the police force, drawing up schemes if not for his own gratification at any rate in the interests of a doctrinaire conception of efficiency. This perhaps is not a proper point for Second Reading, but I should be grateful, and I believe it would remove a good deal of misapprehension, if my right hon. Friend were able on the Committee Stage to put the emphasis rather differently and say that when an existing organisation is proved inadequate, then he will draw up a scheme. I am not pretending to put it into drafting language at the present time, but I believe that a general assurance in some such terms would remove a good deal of largely unfounded disquiet in the country. The real question is, is the Home Secretary going to assume that the present organisation is efficient until the contrary is proved, or is he going to assume that it is inadequate unless the force now in existence can prove its efficiency? Subject to that, I believe that in the present circumstances, if the Home Secretary is to discharge his duty of the maintenance of public order, he must have powers similar to those granted in Clause 3. There is one further point that I think should be taken into consideration at the present time in dealing with amalgamation schemes. It is perfectly true, of  course, as I think the Home Secretary pointed out, that different administrative considerations apply when dealing with police administration as compared with the rest of local administration, but there is a great deal of relationship between the two and we are in danger at present of living, from the point of view of local government, in a state where we pay our rates to one authority, have our children educated by another, have our police force run by a third, and our electricity supplied by a fourth. Although it is true that on all those authorities the elected representatives of the people do appear, I think it is also true that government by the representatives of the people is not the same as government by the delegates of the representatives of the people. Later on the whole question of local government will have to be gone into, and in five or 10 years' time I hope we shall find ourselves living in a much more coherent and logical order of things in this field. Although it is obvious that in the life of the present Parliament we cannot tackle a problem of this kind, in connection with these amalgamations I think it would be better to go slow rather than fast at present so that when, in another Parliament, we come to reform local government, there will not be too many anomalies to iron out that have been created by amalgamations under this Bill. Subject to these remarks I believe that it is a just Bill, just in its incidence on the individual; it is a good Bill in its principles, and it is a necessary Bill in the circumstances of the present time. I cannot believe for one moment that it is, in the slightest degree, an appropriate instrument for any Minister who may be minded to cut across the present system and create a national police force, and looking at some of the provisions of Clause 2 dealing with the kind of factors that have to be taken into account in preparing an amalgamation, I must confess that I cannot imagine a more inept instrument in the hands of a ""National Police"" minded Minister than this. I hope the Home Secretary will not limit the scope of his amalgamations, and I sincerely hope that not for one moment will he consider postponing the Second Reading of this important, right and necessary Bill for a period of six months.
