gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I beg to move, ""That the Clause be read a Second time."" I ask the indulgence of the Committee on this the very first occasion on which I have the honour of addressing it. That indulgence may be necessary because I have no expert knowledge of taxation or public finance, and the only reason I put my name to this new Clause, which was on the Order Paper in the name of my hon. Friend the Member for Epping (Mr. Nigel Davies), is because I have had some experience of the difficulties and problems which business men encounter from time to time in the North American market—difficulties regarding goods and services in that very difficult and exhilarating market. It seems to me that the whole purpose and idea behind this Clause is to provide the kind of incentive which stresses the vital need to encourage those small and large business men who have not yet made any attempt to enter the North American market. Indeed, it is most important that a far greater variety of goods should be sold in the American market, and in a far greater variety of territories, than are being sold there at the present time. The reasons for this are quite clear to anyone who is aware of the very wide divergence between the wise and far-seeing import policies of the American and Canadian Governments and the views held by certain manufacturing concerns who are taking what I may term a rather short-view in the interest of their own products. Although the American tariffs are frequently mentioned as a major difficulty of exporters to the North American Continent, they are not the major difficulty. The major difficulty is the multiplicity of administrative formalities and Customs procedures, State regulations, trade association practices, and various other matters which make it exceedingly difficult for the exporter to conform with the requirements of the American market.  Hon. Members will remember that in 1930, when these tariffs were first introduced, the Americans were far less concerned about the height of the tariff wall than about the various other regulations which protected them from what they considered to be undue competition. These are the expensive and complicated difficulties which exporters have to face up to. I should like to give the Committee an example of a very enterprising industry in, my own constituency where a seed merchant is this year exporting to America half a million dollars worth of seeds-There are no tariff difficulties whatever to speak of, but when those seeds enter American territory, they must be stained a certain colour. That gives the American seed industry an opportunity, if they so desire, to discriminate in various ways against that particular import. If we look at the figures of the exports which we send to America, we find that the vast bulk of them can be listed under eight or nine headings. Most of them are sold in the Eastern Atlantic States—East of the Mississippi and North of the Potomac—for it so happens that they are the easiest markets; they are the richest and most populous part of the United States. One of the troubles is that this drive to increase the traditional exports has resulted in a good deal of fear and despondency among the American competitors of these particular imports. It will be found that all the devices they are so well accustomed to use against what they consider to be undue competition are now beginning to have some influence on the increased exports to those particular parts. It will be found that the bulk of the sales of English woollen textiles are in the Eastern, New England States of America. Also concentrated in those areas are the bulk of the American textile industry, so it is small wonder that these industries are beginning to use the sort of devices which they are entitled to use against what they consider to be undue competition. The American market is comparable only to the American territory in its vastness. This 200,000 million dollar market is something which we cannot help but realise offers glorious opportunities to the British export industry. I need not remind hon. Members what even 1 per cent. would mean to Britain and the Commonwealth. It is strange that, in spite of the many excellent devices which are available to the British exporter at the present time, we are not in a position to do a great deal better in the variety and multiplicity of exports to the American market. When one thinks of the work of the Dollar Exports Board, the British Export Trade Research Association and other Government bodies, and the undoubted assistance they provide to industry, it seems peculiar that there has not been a much greater drive in the whole area rather than in certain areas. Devaluation has brought many lines of British goods into the competitive price range for the first time in our trading history. The stock of good will towards British goods is an extremely valuable, though perhaps a somewhat intangible, asset at the present time. With all these advantages, if our traders cannot take advantage of the market as it stands at present, they never will. The misgivings which so many industries feel towards the effort required to enter this market are quite understandable in many ways. The rewards are very small and the risks are very great. The Dollar Exports Board and other organisations have done a fine job. It is quite clear that risk and expenses are involved in tackling this very stimulating and great challenge to our industrial entrepreneurs. British industry, with the highest burden of taxation of any industry in the world, cannot afford to tackle the immense cost of embarking upon a campaign in this highly competitive market. It is no denigration of British industry to say that if we had to face here the competitive conditions which prevail in America, half the industries in this country would go out of business. I do not believe that the art of American salesmanship is an occult art. I do not believe that the ordinary British businessman cannot master the technique of selling to the Americans. I do not believe that the traditional British skills and quality of workmanship are in any way inferior to the American. The trouble is that we cannot afford the cost, whatever is done in the way of export guarantees and other facilities. The real burden of cost to industry in embarking on this adventure must fall on the balance sheets of the companies concerned. Let me say here that I shall be able to contain my astonishment if the right hon. Gentleman tells me that this Clause is impracticable and opens up all kinds of opportunities for the wicked. I will believe him when he tells me that, and I will also believe that it may be against certain principles of taxation. All those things I will accept if he tells me so. But what I will not accept is the argument that we must not try something new, that we must not be prepared to adopt special incentives to help and encourage the British exporter to North America. If we are prepared to try anything we can achieve anything. There may be all sorts of other devices which could be used, although, Major Milner, you would probably tell me that I was out of order if I were to discuss them now. Perhaps at another time we shall have an opportunity of discussing other kinds of incentives. What we would like to hear is something about the Government's attitude to incentives to exporters to the North American continent. If we do not hear anything about these new ideas and devices, I am afraid that we shall just have to put it down to the reactionary conservatism of the Socialist Chancellor of the Exchequer. My hon. Friend who was to have moved this new Clause was not here to do so, but I am sure that he will be quite prepared to take on all comers on the question of the technical details of this Clause. As a maiden speaker, I have found myself in a somewhat embarrassing position in having to move it.
