gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
This is a frightening but very important moment for me in that it is my first speech in this Chamber. I hope that hon. Members on both sides will extend to me the indulgence and tolerance that, I understand, is given to all new speakers. As a new Member I have had a variety of advice as to the timing of my maiden speech, but whether I have been told that the   speech should be sooner or later, my advisers have been unanimous in saying that in any case it should be brief. I have not been able to ascertain whether the purpose of that brevity is to avoid causing boredom to other hon. Members, to avoid exhausting their patience, or is, in fact, an act of mercy to a new Member. I shall do my best to maintain the practice of remaining non-controversial in my maiden speech, but if I do err in that regard I hope that the House will forgive me. In the time available to me it is obviously quite impossible to deal with a Report of some 360 pages, so I would like to deal with only one aspect. First, I would add my tribute to the work of Lord Radcliffe and his Committee and to say that, in general, I welcome the Committee's exhaustive deliberations and recommendations. In one respect, however, I think that the Report is a little contradictory in recommending that local authorities should have immediate access to the Public Works Loan Board. I cannot see why local authorities should get this preferential treatment. In the main, the capital wants of local authorities are for housing—and here I exclude such housing as welfare housing, old people's dwellings and certain slum clearance. Since the war this country has had a magnificent record in house building, but we must remember that a great proportion of it has been council house building. If the slum-clearance programme is to continue, as I am sure it will, then, in the normal efflux of time, all rented property will become council property. That means that the habitable house of today is the slum of 15 or 20 years' time. If this recommendation is accepted, these council houses will all be built on advantageous terms. I was very interested to hear the difference—and I agree—between the financing of nationalised industries and that of local authorities. The nationalised industries belong to the taxpayer, who eventually foots the bill, while the local authorities are autonomous and have a certain amount of credit-worthiness. It would be better if that local authority credit-worthiness were increased. It will be remembered that in 1952 the Government gave a permissive right to  all local authorities to sell council houses. Under the Small Dwellings Acquisition Acts, and the Housing Acts the same local authorities had the permissive right to advance money to would-be applicants for any sort of house purchase. Not many council houses have been sold, and it is as well to remember that many local authorities have not exercised this permissive right. What we have to do is to try to get true freedom. I am sure that we all agree with freedom for the individual, but the transfer of this permissive right from the central Government to local government is not, in fact, giving freedom to the individual, and I would respectfully suggest that we should consider whether these permissive rights, either to buy a council house or to apply to one's local authority for the necessary finance to purchase one' house, should be permissive not to the local authority but to the tenant. We would then have a much truer picture of whether or not council house tenants wish to buy their houses. Quite obviously, these houses will have to be sold at valuation, but in the sale of any property there are two valuations, there is the vacant-possession valuation and there is the sitting-tenant valuation, and, obviously, council tenants would buy on the sitting-tenant valuation. My experience as vice-chairman of the finance committee of the Wandsworth Borough Council some years ago leads me to believe that the sale of council houses could easily mean that local authorities would make a profit on the sale. Even if a profit were not made, the council would be spared the burden of the 60-year loan charge. That, in itself, would make local authorities more credit-worthy, and the more creditworthy local authorities are the easier it is, and will be, for them to take their loans on the normal money market. Owning one's house is the aim of most people, and it is an ambition that the Government should encourage. If that were done it would break this continuous build-up of council house estates. That is a very burning question in my own constituency where in one council estate alone I have nearly 15,000 voters. That problem is growing daily in Nottingham, South, as it is throughout the country. Somehow, we have to encourage property owning so that we do, in fact,   get a property-owning democracy. And we must also remember that this would encourage saving. I apologise to the House if my argument has been either too complicated or too lengthy, and I hope that hon. Members will appreciate that that results from my inexperience and consequent incoherence. I thank hon. Members for not having violently disagreed with me—at least, while I have been speaking—and would only add that the thoughts I have expressed are sincerely held by me.
