gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
In rising to address the House for the first time, I ask the House to afford to me the indulgence extended to hon. Members on such occasions. I have but one advantage, if it be an advantage, in that I am the third generation to have the honour to sit in this House. My forebears, my father and my grandfather, however, sat as members of the Liberal Party. I am therefore satisfied that I have suitable ghosts who will prevent me from being too partisan either on this or. I trust, on other occasions. Following as I do on the two statesmanlike speeches that we have heard this afternoon, it is with great diffidence that I invite the House to allow me to consider for a short while the two great issues of today upon which the peace of Europe and of the Middle East, if not of the world, depends. On 11th May the Prime Minister urged that unity, vigilance and fidelity are the only foundations upon which hope can live. I am sure that the House will agree that it is the careful pursuit of these virtues in practice which will ensure our success in maintaining the peace of the world. The dominant issue in Europe is whether one can attain a united Germany upon terms which will maintain world peace. The dominant issue in the Middle East is still the problem of our base on the Suez Canal. This afternoon we have heard from the Chancellor of the Exchequer glad tidings indeed of agreement with the United States that the maintenance of a base in the Canal Zone is a necessary instrument for the preservation of world peace. In the absence of agreement we face the unpleasant necessity in this area of providing 80,000 troops, including some of our finest fighting units, at a cost of £50 million per annum for the protection of £500 million worth of stores and installations. But until agreement, international or otherwise, is achieved, as I trust it will be, it is plain that we must stay, not merely because of the considerations of military strategy which are involved in this pivot of Middle East defence but also because of the psychological values involved in that area. If we leave, the present dictator or his successor—the ""dancing major"" or whoever it may be—will seek to wipe out our efforts at justice in the Sudan, or to overthrow Israel, or to stir up dissension in a third direction in Africa. These are psychological factors of the very greatest importance. I feel sure that the majority of the House will agree that loss of our prestige there would be loss of our prestige in the world. Prestige in the Middle East depends upon strength and the length of one's purse. The considerations involved are different from those involved in other areas. These are the weighty factors. Nevertheless, the information which I have been fortunate enough to obtain from many friends of mine who are serving in the Forces leads one to believe that some reduction in our Forces in the Canal Zone might gradually take place and indeed begin now. The conditions experienced by our troops there are very difficult indeed, but one cannot pass this subject without saying that they are very grateful to the Government for the facilities which are being provided at the present time. The postal facilities, for example, are excellent with a service taking only 48 hours and a cheap rate of 2½d. Thanks to the efforts of General Festing, sports facilities are now satisfactory and canteen and other social facilities have been rapidly improved. But is it really necessary that the Para-troop Brigade, our only brigade of that kind, should be maintained for a period of nearly two years in the Middle East? Is it not possible that they might be relieved and brought back so that they may carry on their effective training? At present these fighting troops are engaged in the Canal Zone purely on guard duties. I feel that is a serious waste of the fighting personnel of the country. If international agreement may perhaps now be obtained in order to reduce our Forces to merely technical personnel of some 6,000 or 7,000 as before the war, why should we not insist that part of the burden of their maintenance, until such agreement be forthcoming, should be borne by the United Nations? Why should the British nation, in defence of world interests, be compelled to meet the whole burden of defence in that area? Passing from consideration of Egypt to the really dominant issue of Germany, we appear to be agreed in this country, as indeed is Russia, that Germany should be united once again. The natural desire of the Germans in this respect, which has been expressed quite clearly in statements by Dr. Adenauer, must become a reality sooner or later. One trusts that it may be soon. But surely our deep concern must be about the practical safeguards which must obtain before ensuring a reunited Germany. The Prime Minister declared on 11th May: We shall continue to play a full and active part in plans for the political, military and  economic association of Western Europe with the North Atlantic Alliance.""—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th May, 1953; Vol. 515, c. 897.] This presupposes the inclusion of Germany. Indeed, we have heard this afternoon, and one could not fail to be most deeply impressed by the Chancellor's statements of further plans which apparently are being and will be pursued in this respect. I feel, nevertheless, that it is only right that one should spotlight for a moment from these back benches the difficulties which are involved so that the country may appreciate them. Past history, and particularly a study of Bismarck, shows that the natural military alliance of Germany, if free, is in the direction of the Soviet Republic. The natural boundaries of Germany and the plains of Germany flow and stretch to the East and not to the West. The natural resumption of trade is with the East and not with the West. That is the background of German history. Post-war knowledge and present-day contacts with Germans and those closely associated with Germany support this view, for several reasons. There is a very real fear in Germany of another war with Russia. There is obviously a very real fear in Russia that they may have another Stalingrad in a war with Germany. In terms of trade at present—I stress those words—they face more difficulties and more difficult competition in the markets of the West than in the markets of the East. It seems, therefore, that one must make of European unity a real truth, that one must open up the colonial empires of the other countries and encourage the markets of the Commonwealth, of our Empire, as well provide the persuasion that is needed to ensure that Germany faces to the West rather than to the East. The vital question is that of the balance of power between Eastern and Western Germany. I pose this question: what would happen if Russia and the Western Powers were now to withdraw their troops altogether? Would there not be a situation such as was envisaged by my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition on 11th May? Is that not the danger—a situation with East Germany, with its troops, perhaps 300,000, and containing the doughty warriors of the Wehrmacht, on the one side facing   Dr. Adenauer and his scholastic professors, on the other—a Lutheran East and a Catholic West of opposing factions. Surely, little imagination is needed to appreciate the danger of a possible military dictatorship, the rise of an imperial Power arm in arm with an East German Socialist spinster, with the mother of the Soviet Republics, in the background—a mother-in-law able to provide a dowry of no inconsiderable amount, namely, the consumer markets of the East—a very real danger and, indeed, if it came about, an unholy wedlock. Therefore, one must face the possibility of a Soviet-German bloc along those lines within the next 10 years, and, if that position arose, the possible danger of yet a further world war thereafter. Our aims, then, should be these. One should proceed, as has been said, step by step with patience to ensure German unity; to support the West German Government pledged to military, political and economic associations with the E.D.C. and the E.P.C.; in particular to strive to ratify the E.D.C.; and to ensure in the rearmament of Germany a true balance of power between East and West, before the unification of Germany is complete; then the Bundestag proposals to follow, with the free elections and a peace treaty after the integration of Germany with the West has been ensured. I ask my right hon. Friend this question in conclusion. What further active steps can be taken to press for the integration of Germany, whether it be divided or united, into the E.D.C., and the closer economic association to which the Chancellor has referred? If we are united, vigilant and faithful to these ideals, I believe our hopes can be realised and that peace in our time can prevail. But if we fail in that project and if, therefore, a Soviet-German military alliance were ultimately to prevail, then the future of this country would be in danger; this Government presumably would take the blame, and the youth of our country in the future might have to face the further horrors of war.
