gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am honoured to be addressing the House for the first time as the representative of the electors of Buckingham. I follow a Member well known both inside and outside   the House, who was a very good and assiduous constituency member. In his own colourful way, he made certain that the constituency and its problems never passed unnoticed. Whether I emulate him or not, I can assure the House that I have no designs whatever on the Chairmanship of the Kitchen Committee. No constituency in this country is more affected by the pressures of modern life than Buckingham. Two of the sites for the third London Airport threaten my constituency. This causes great anxiety and hardship to a large number of people. In addition, it stops major planning decisions from being taken. The vast majority of my constituents are bitterly opposed to the selection of an inland site. I hope that it will not be long before the Government can relieve them of this threat. In addition, the entire site of the new city of Milton Keynes lies within my constituency. This is an entirely new concept of a planned urban development involving some 250,000 people. Although this is the first attempt, in this country at any rate, to achieve anything approaching a settlement of this magnitude and, although the difficulties which face us are immense, I am certain that, given the resources by the Government, this concept can produce something really exciting in terms of modern living. It may seem that these characteristics have no connection with the subject we are discussing. However, defence is of vital interest to every citizen. It is also inescapably bound up with the prosperity of the country. No development, however exciting, can have any hope of success unless it takes place in a Britain which is both safe and prosperous. Therefore, I am glad to be making my maiden speech on this occasion. I strongly support the majority of the proposals contained in the White Paper, particularly the improvement in our N.A.T.O. commitments, the proposals for strengthening the Royal Navy, and the expansion of the Territorial and Army Volunteer Reserve. This last proposal I find particularly welcome, and with many other hon. Members, I see it as providing an additional disciplined reserve force for the defence of this country, and for responding to national emergencies of whatever kind. The success of the proposals in the White Paper depends very largely on getting the necessary manpower to operate the weapons which they are proposing to employ. I wish the Government well in their endeavours to improve the popularity of the Services and make them competitive with civilian occupations. In the Services, as in many other walks of life, the career structure is every bit as important as the pay and conditions. That part of the White Paper which highlights a shortage of officers in both the Army and the Royal Navy is indicative of this. Young men today feel that there is no future in a Service career and that they may find themselves high and dry at a relatively early age in life, without the prospect of getting further employment. One way to enhance the status of the Services, particularly as regards the officer entry, is to ensure that every entrant, if he does not come from a university, has the opportunity of obtaining a university qualification during the course of his career, either at a Service university or a conventional establishment. In defence, any Government has two major responsibilities: the defence of these islands and the protection of our trade and commerce. Everything else is secondary to those two major aims. As many hon. Members have pointed out, the former means playing a major part in strengthening the defence of Western Europe through the N.A.T.O. Alliance. It also means working in ever increasing co-operation with our European allies in the development of weapon systems. That is why I was pleased to see in the White Paper the reference to the Exocet missile co-operation with France. The latter requires the deployment of modern naval forces with a strong carrier element until we are confident that VTOL aircraft are both feasible and effective in operation. Today we have heard a lot about the Russian threat. This threat seems to have outclassed anything we have seen since the war. It is predominantly a naval threat to our lines of communication and must be resisted by our naval forces in all parts of the world. It is shortsighted to suppose that we can continue spending a greater proportion of our gross national product on defence than is spent by our major competitors. That is all the more reason   why we should make certain that our effort is concentrated where it can be most effective. Nothing could be more fatal at present than to try to do too much with too little. This brings me to the proposals for east of Suez and the Opposition Amendment. I find myself in a somewhat unmaidenly position. I am in opposition both to the Amendment and to a certain extent to the proposals contained in the White Paper. I reject the Amendment mainly for its hypocrisy. I know that one should not be controversial in a maiden speech, but it is clear now that the proposals of the last Government involved a commitment without a presence. I listened to the right hon. Member for Dundee, East (Mr. George Thomson) saying how much he decried the fact that we on this side of the House, certainly during the previous Government, tended to say that the then Government put defence at the bottom of the list. When I read the second Amendment on the Order Paper and see the number of people who have signed it, it seems that there was a certain amount of truth in that accusation. At the same time I criticise the proposals in the White Paper because they are advocating the wrong kind of presence and an ill defined commitment. An arangement of this sort needs two things to make it work. First, the parties concerned must have complete trust in each other. Second, the protected must believe that the protector has both the power and the will to enforce that protection when the time comes. I accept that following the recent visit of the Secretary of State for Defence to South-East Asia this element of trust is vastly improved, but I am doubtful still about the ability of this country, even in conjunction with our allies, to meet and resist effectively a major, or even a relatively minor, confrontation in these areas. To do this successfully must, it seems to me, mean reinforcement, yet we are told that the presence will be severely limited. Without reinforcement this commitment becomes incredible, from the start. As against this, a naval and air presence would protect the major frontiers of Malaysia—we are talking about Malaysia now; it would secure the vital  sea routes in the area; and it would produce a commitment which was both understandable and limited. In the Gulf the decision obviously has not yet been taken, but my personal experience of the area—I was there just over a year ago—leads me to hope that a different course will be followed. Whatever one may think of the manner, the appalling manner, in which the decision to withdraw was taken by the previous Government, it gave great impetus to the formation of the Federation of Arab Emirates. Any hesitation now on our part would produce a welcome excuse for the rulers to put off taking some very difficult decisions. There are many other ways, of assisting the economic, social and military development of this area than by keeping a resident force of British troops in Sharjah. From a defence point of view, the best answer lies in a naval and air presence in the Gulf, which would provide an adequate protection for our oil supplies—oil supplies, incidentally, not only for this country, but a large proportion of the supplies for the N.A.T.O. Alliance as well—the enlargement of C.E.N.T.O. to include these States, and the creation of Federal Armed Forces around the nucleus of the Trucial Oman Scouts who have been so successful in maintaining the stability of the area up to now. The whole art of defence planning is to prepare for the unexpected, and I believe that the Government have made a good start in producing a modern and effective defence system for the 'seventies. I hope that they will think again before committing us to a land-based—and I emphasise land-based—presence east of Suez. I hope that they will rely instead on a maritime and air strategy which has stood this country in such good stead in the past and which, I am sure, can provide the true defence answer for the future.
