gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise to address the Committee for the first time, and in doing so I am sure that I can rely upon that indulgence which the Committee, by tradition, always gives to those addressing it for the first time. I understand that the two essentials of a maiden speech are, first, brevity, and, secondly, that it should be as far as possible non-controversial. The first I think is quite easy, and I shall not err in that respect; but I am not quite so sure about the second, having regard to the debate which is taking place today. The two speeches to which we have just listened have been very wide ranging and I do not propose to deal with matters that have been discussed already. I prefer to devote my remarks to one comparatively small but, I believe, important aspect which arises from the Govern-  ment's financial policy. I refer to the effect of the financial policy of the Government on local government. That matter was referred to briefly by the right hon. Member for Blackburn, West (Mr. Assheton). He did not develop the point except to hope that the Government would deal with the finances of local government before long. I agree with him that finance should be dealt with before functions. That is the logical order. I would go further and say it is high time that a distinct and radical step was taken to alter the present foundations of local government finance. Perhaps the most important and immediate question is that of derating. There are also the matters of assessment and equalisation grants, and a general review of the basis of the Government contribution to local government expenditure. The matter to which I wish to refer more fully is the capital expenditure which local authorities today are more or less compelled to incur. The figure is now running at about £400 million a year. We have heard criticisms of local government expenditure, but much of it, if not the whole, is not only desirable, but necessary. Arrears from the war still need to be overtaken. What is more, every penny piece of this expenditure must be approved by a Department of the central Government, and to that extent it may be regarded as expenditure which is essential for the well-being of the citizen. If there is capital expenditure for that amount there must also be a fairly substantial amount spent each year in interest payments. I believe that the figure for the current financial year will be about £70 million. Obviously, therefore, if local authorities have to pay that sum by way of interest payments they are seriously concerned about the action of the Government in increasing the rate of interest on moneys borrowed from the Public Works Loan Board. It will be within the recollection of hon. Members that the rate was increased from 3 per cent. to 4¼ per cent. That has made a substantial difference to the burden on local authorities. I wish to illustrate that by referring to Birmingham; first, because I know it best, having served as a member of the local authority for more than 25 years,   and secondly, because the experience of Birmingham is not singular. Other large county boroughs, and indeed some of the smaller authorities have had a similar experience. Therefore, what I say can be applied quite fairly to local government generally. In Birmingham, the total amount of interest paid in the current financial year amounts approximately to £1 million. I am not suggesting that the whole of this amount is borne as a direct charge on the rates. It is not. Some of it will be paid by the citizen as a taxpayer, or as a ratepayer, or as a consumer of local government services. But, at any rate, it has to be paid. Schools, roads, houses, almost every aspect of local government work today is feeling the additional burden of interest payments. I shall not go into the various services, because that would take too long, but I wish to refer to one which, today, is responsible for the greatest expenditure. I refer, of course, to housing. Today, in most local authorities, housing represents approximately 60 per cent. of the capital expenditure. In Birmingham, it is just under 60 per cent. The average cost of houses being built in the City of Birmingham is £1,670. The weekly economic rent, exclusive of rates, amounts to 36s. Of that sum, no less than 19s. arises from interest payments. More than half of the economic rent of the house is due to interest payments. To put it another way, the total cost of an average house in Birmingham today on the 4½ per cent. basis is £2,970 in interest charges alone. On the old 3 per cent. basis, which applied up to November, 1951, the total interest payments in respect of that house over its 60 years of life amounted to £1,951. The difference between those figures is £1,019. That, in effect, is the additional cost which the Birmingham local authority has to bear by reason of the Government's decision to increase the rate of interest to borrowers from the Public Works Loan Board. From housing I turn to the general picture to illustrate the same story. In Birmingham, it is necessary every year to raise about £13 million capital expenditure. About £3 million of that is found internally and the remaining £10 million has to be borrowed in one form or an-  other. The rise in the interest rate has cost the city £125,000 a year, on the assumption, as I said a moment ago, that £10 million of capital expenditure is required to be borrowed each year. In other words, it is equivalent of a 4d. rate and that is a very high price to pay for this dear money policy. My third illustration refers to something fairly well known to hon. Members, the recent loan raised by the City of Birmingham. I was Chairman of the Finance Committee at that time, and, therefore, I am particularly and closely acquainted with that operation. The term of that loan, if it runs for the proper period, is 17 years. The additional interest we are called upon to pay as a result of the increase from 3 per cent. to 4¼ per cent. is about £75,000 a year. That is an additional cost due to the increase in the Bank rate. But I need hardly say that it is not now possible to borrow at 4¼ per cent. on the market. No local authority that I know of can go on the market today and borrow at much under 4½ per cent. Unless I am wrong, I believe that shortly, when there is a queue of local authorities wishing to go on the market, rates will harden still further and that even more heavy interest burdens will have to be met. Yesterday, the Chancellor referred to the freedom that local authorities had been given to go on to the market. I suggest that that freedom is quite fictitious and spurious. There is no real freedom for local authorities today as between borrowing from the Public Works Loan Board and going on to the market. When the rate of interest was 2½ per cent. or 3 per cent. local authorities were happy to borrow from the Board despite the fact that certain rigid conditions applied. What is more, the Chancellor seemed to suggest that the conditions were much more favourable now. Against that, I would say that by raising the rate of interest the Government deliberately made conditions of borrowing from the Board much more onerous and, therefore, forced local authorities on to the market. That was the position with Birmingham and, I think, with other local authorities also. The Treasury still persist in adhering to regulations which are antiquated and indefensibly restrictive. Every loan borrowed from the Public   Works Loan Board must be borrowed for the full period of the loan sanction. Obviously, no local authority in its senses, or no local authority which has a sense of duty to its citizens and ratepayers, will pay 4½ per cent. for periods of 40 to 60 years. The authorities follow the very sound practice that when rates are high one should borrow short. This is a most important question for the local authorities. The representations made by the Association of Municipal Corporations and other local government bodies are receiving the consideration of the Government. I hope that very soon it will be possible for a favourable decision to be made. I hope that there will be a change which will allow local authorities to have a real freedom to go on to the market. There is no justification for a continuance of the present type of regulation. I trust that I have been able to emphasise, or re-emphasise, that the rate of interest is a most important factor today in civic life and development, and that the existing rate is a grievous burden which will prove a serious handicap in the development of the legitimate and most necessary local government activities which are taking place.
