gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I am very grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, and to the House for affording me an opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate. I shall take your advice, Sir. I am only too glad to be brief. I represent an agricultural constituency, a constituency in which only 6 per cent. of the insured population are employed in manufacturing industry. It is a very beautiful constituency, with many  holiday resorts, beautiful mountains and lakes; and also we have a railway line which has been preserved for us by the last Minister of Transport as a reminder of the bounty of private enterprise. I follow, as Member for the constituency, Mr. T. W. Jones, who was a distinguished Member of the House and who gave great service both to the House and to the constituency. It was his custom in the Chamber to address hon. and right hon. Members with a few sentences in Welsh, but, in view of the wholesale colonisation of English constituencies by Welshmen, I do not propose to follow that custom. I have noted that in past debates on agriculture many hon. Members on both sides have drawn on their own experience and knowledge of farming, and that experience and knowledge have often been gained in very large farms, the economic units to which the Minister refers in Clause 38 of the Bill. My experience is experience on a small farm. I am the son of a small tenant farmer working a unit of less than 20 acres, a unit which employed only my father and my family. Indeed, as I deliver this speech, I think that no Member of the House will have leaned so heavily upon the experience of a small croft since Mr. Harold Macmillan addressed the House. My father realised, some 10 years before the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was far more profitable in this country to send one's son to a lucrative service employment like the law rather than to pursue a highly efficient productive industry like agriculture. I shall be brief and refer to two aspects of the Bill which I regard as an attempt to make the agricultural economy of this country viable and to bring it up to date. First, I express my disappointment and the disappointment of both farming unions in my constituency that the Minister of Agriculture has not been radical enough in his proposals for reorganising meat marketing. We have the Milk Marketing Board, the Egg Marketing Board, the Wool Marketing Board and other such organisations all doing a fine job. Every farmer in my constituency has benefited from the working of these boards. Nearly every farmer and both farming unions in my constituency are gravely disappointed that a radical Government could not be radical enough and introduce a meat marketing board. Secondly, I should like to refer to the Bill's proposals for the reorganising of farm structures. I come from a small farm. I myself have farmed as part of a family farming a small unit. I am not here to bemoan the attempt at reorganisation and the attempt to do away with many small units which are uneconomic. Our unit was slightly less than 20 acres, and it is not unique in Wales. There are 50,000 units in Wales. Forty thousand of them are less than 100 acres. It must be remembered that Wales is a land of marginal land, hill land, and rough pasture. Not only are 40,000 units less than 100 acres, but 18,000 are less than 20 acres. Most of those 20-acre units support a farmer wholly in agriculture. The time has come, whatever the future of agriculture may be—whether we are to have a tariff system in the future or whether we are to continue the present price support system—when we must tackle the problem of small uneconomic units. This is a very serious problem indeed in Wales. I have great reservations about the provisions in the Bill. It is a good attempt, but from my personal experience, which is limited, and from my knowledge and all that I have learned from my family and from farmers in my constituency, I do not think that the provisions of the Bill will succeed in achieving all that the Minister hopes to achieve. The best indication that the Minister himself does not think that he will achieve a good deal is that the financial provision he is making for the reorganisation in the Bill itself is very limited. I promised to be brief. I will be brief. I am very grateful to the House for the indulgence it has shown me. My constituency and, I am sure, the whole farming industry in Wales is gravely disappointed by the step which has been taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in so far as it affects agriculture in Wales. My community depends on agriculture. We have many problems that cannot be solved. Now this added burden has been placed on the small farmer. Its effect will be particularly severe on the dairy farmer, because it is the dairy farmer in my constituency who employs labour. Very few farms in my constituency, apart from dairy farms, employ labour. There is no opportunity for men engaged in farming in my constituency to obtain work  in manufacturing industry. They can only take Dr. Johnson's advice and follow the high road into England. Mr. Speaker, I am very grateful for the indulgence you have shown me. Speaking as the representative of an agricultural community and of a radical community which has been loyal to this Government and which has looked to this Government for radical solutions, I must say this. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has given us radical solutions, but they are not just in their effect on my constituency. My right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture has tried to be just, but his solutions are not radical enough to succeed where he ought to succeed in my constituency.
