gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
After hearing so many speeches covering so many points, I feel that there is very little I can add to the debate. As this is a subject on which I, like many hon. Members, feel so deeply, I shall, however, take up the time of the House for a few minutes. I am not like some lawyers are reputed to be, namely, one of those people who find not solutions for difficulties but difficulties in every solution. I feel that there are some matters which have been touched on already which we as a nation and individually in our official capacity as members of old people's welfare associations and local government bodies, really must face. I honestly believe that more old people are suffering today from cancer of the mind than there are people suffering from cancer of the body. This cancer has already been referred to by my hon. Friend the Member for Meriden (Mr. Matthews) and others. It is loneliness. It is something which is cumulative, something which takes away the will to look after oneself. It is something which takes away the will to do more than lie down and wait for the end which, nowadays, is sometimes a very long time coming. There are gaps in the efforts which we are making at present. I am glad to see that my hon. Friend the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Health is here, because this problem is very closely tied with the problem of housing. It is one of the things which contributes to under-occupation. For example, old people often live in biggish premises and cannot bear to leave their old surroundings because it is all they have left. There is also a frame of mind which may sound rather peculiar to some people but which nonetheless is quite common. It is that as people grow older they have a great reluctance to move away from the district where their dead are buried. I so often hear old ladies saying, ""No, father's buried here, I don't want to move away from him"". That is something which we must bear in mind and something which arises out of loneliness. If they had other interests and other people interested in them that might not be such a factor. Local authorities have a greater part to play and, in some cases, private enterprise has a lesser part to play according to the effi-  ciency of the two or the ability of the two to spend enough money to assist these people. We have heard from my hon. Friend the Member for Meriden about the views expressed in The Times by Peter Townsend, of the London School of Economics. Following the letter which my hon. Friend read, hon. Members may remember he wrote two articles in The Times during May, 1960. I should like to quote a short paragraph from one of them which will make my feelings plain on the lack of assistance which private enterprise sometimes gives under the guise—perhaps with quite good intentions—of giving actual assistance. He said, having spoken of the good old people's homes that he had found, that At the other extreme was a dilapidated building for 21 residents. The bedrooms each contained three or four beds close together. They were uncarpeted and unheated. In one icy room a woman in her eighties was said to be dying. The beds had iron frames and lumpy flock mattresses. Some of the thin plywood doors could not be closed. Several floorboards were rotten; the stairs were very steep. There was no separate dining room and the lounge had insufficient chairs for all the residents. It had to be shared with the proprietress who had only one handyman, a cook and a mentally defective woman of 60 to help her. The charge was four guineas a week. The charge was not high, but that, I would submit, does not help at all. That is where local authorities must surely step in in order to help those who cannot afford to help themselves. Finally, I feel we have to regard this to some extent as a three-pronged drive. First we must care for the lonely, homebound old people who have been mentioned already. Those people are, indeed, cared for already through meals on wheels, home helps, visitors from the old people's welfare associations, but there are still tremendous gaps. I was once honoured by being vice-chairman of the Old People's Welfare Association in South-East London. We there had ability to give home help to homebound old people, but over the weekends there were no meals on wheels and we had to make a tremendous effort among people whom we knew were homebound—and they were a small percentage of the ones who surrounded us—,to supply even a Christmas dinner to those people. That was done on an almost completely voluntary basis. It is no use being over-sentimental about these matters, but we   have to think of the case of the man or woman who is incapacitated to some extent and unable to get out and sometimes has not been out of home or room for years. We must think of these people sitting from Saturday lunchtime to Monday lunchtime literally waiting to hear the sound of a human voice addressed personally to them and waiting to taste hot food. That is something we have to do. The other part of the drive is that we must empty the hospital wards of those who are not sick but who are merely old. We must make arrangements for them. Sometimes they are merely incontinent and sometimes—and we must face the fact—they are merely a nuisance and no one will take them off the hands of the general ward once they get in there. This is not a huge problem but nevertheless it is part of the difficulty that we have to face. In common with hon. Members who have spoken so far, and no doubt with those who will follow, I think that we must also work harder to house adequately those who are fit to live their own lives in their own homes, because those are the people on whom the burden can be placed of looking after themselves. They are the people who need less welfare as long as they have better housing. If we do that, as I believe the Government intend to do, and if we as private Members can exercise our duty in pushing the Government always a little faster than perhaps they might otherwise go, we shall have done something to remedy this very large problem.
