gsub...n........maiden_speeches.speech.i..
I rise for the first time in this House with a great deal of trepidation, because before me have been many carefully-argued cases and many distinguished speakers, dealing particularly with legal aspects of this problem which is before us. I would particularly like to bring to the attention of the House certain medical aspects of this problem of capital punishment, and it is on these lines that I shall develop my argument. I do not think it is irrelevant at this time to say something about the constituency which I represent. It is a division of the City of Birmingham, known as Perry Barr. It is a new area. It was created as a Parliamentary division since the Second World War. It is a dormitory area for our great city, an area created largely in the 1930s to meet the needs of rehousing in our city. It is an area which is now showing many of the problems of the inadequate planning of the 1930s. In addition to being a re-housing area, it is an area where many people have bought their own homes and where they live in modest comfort. It is an area of professional people and wage earners. I will say this because I believe it is relevant—in my own constituency there is a deep concern that this Bill should not be passed this afternoon. There is deep concern. Time and time again we have heard this afternoon from those who propose that there should be a complete abolition of capital punishment that public opinion is unformed in this matter. This is not so. I do not believe this. The opinion polls have been perfectly plain on this—that about 80 per cent. of the population of this country does not want complete abolition of capital punishment. We saw during the last election how accurate these opinion polls can be. I would refer also to the late Member for Darwen, who, in 1957, believed that it was important to get accurate facts on this matter. He sent round 40,000 reply-paid postcards to the members of his constituency and in that third of them which were returned nearly 14,000 said they did not want abolition of   the death penalty and only 700 wished to have it. I said that I would develop my argument along medical lines. Before I do so, I should like to pay further tribute to the radical tradition of the Members from Birmingham. We on our Conservative side of the House have always been Radicals, and I think that we remain so today. We also have a great tradition of producing some great Prime Ministers. I believe that the contemporary judgment of Neville Chamberlain is excessively harsh, and I hope that it will be revised in time. I return to the medical point. Why, if the general public of this country do not want a complete abolition of the death penalty, do the majority of hon. Members present seem to want this? They did this in 1947, and when this matter was reconsidered some years ago the same opinion came from the majority of the Members of this House. I have no doubt that tonight, despite the fluency of my argument and those of other hon. Members on our side of the House, we shall pass this Measure, because I have a feeling from the speeches made today that this is the general desire. Why are we different from the general public? I discussed this with a distinguished psychiatrist in the Midlands before I came to make this speech. [Laughter.] Some hon. Members may have opinions about psychiatrists. I do not think they are all good, but I chose this man with care. He said, ""You are an abnormal lot, you Members of Parliament. You do something which is completely psychologically abnormal. You get on your feet and expose yourselves to the to and fro of questioning. You get on your feet and make these speeches. This is quite abnormal for a normal human individual, and what is different about you is that you have a marked sense of aggression."" Let us look at each of us sitting around this House today, and let us appreciate that we have this aggressive feeling. This aggressive feeling is exactly the same psychological feeling that will lead a man to murder. It is my belief that we have a natural sympathy through our aggressive feelings with the murderer. [Laughter.] I say this in all seriousness. There is also another very interesting syndrome—if I may use another medical  expression—among the abolitionists. One will find them active in the cause of abortion law reform; one will find them active in the cause of euthanasia. In this respect we have people—and we all know that this is true—who are prepared to destroy innocent human life before birth and people who are prepared to destroy our old people and sick people merely because they are feeble and old and sick. Yet these are the people who say that the most important thing for them is the preservation of human life. It is not. It is the preservation of their own aggressive feelings. I think this medical point should be borne in mind. I should like to quote from another distinguished psychologist, Professor Eysenck from London, who, in his presidential address to the section of psychology at the British Association for the Advancement of Science this year, said, when dealing with the biological basis of criminal behaviour: At the bottom of all our errors lies probably a fundamental psychological fallacy. We think that punishment deters, and we go on to imagine that the more severe the punishment the greater the deterrence. This is not always true. The statistical study of the effects of increasing the severity of punishment, as by corporal punishment, death penalty, etc. is in complete accord with experimental laboratory studies in showing that the effects of the punishments are extremely variable, very difficult to predict and often contrary to expectation. Severe punishment heightens the prisoner's emotionality to a very considerable degree and this 'booster' action may combine with the existing systems of habits to make these more rigid and difficult to eliminate. The abolitionists may think that this is an argument in support of their case, but he continues: At the moment many people are worried about the increase in criminality but do not know what can be done about it. There are two opposing groups who claim to know. Some call for greater severity, more punitive measures, the bringing back of the cat and so forth, all measures the cruelty of which is only exceeded by their inefficiency. Others call for a psychiatric understanding of criminals, their psychoanalytical treatment and quite generally the application of psychotherapeutic measures. These proposals, while humane, are based on unproved theories, and the evidence as far as it goes suggests that these measures would be no more efficacious than those suggested by the first group. We are today at the stage at which we do not know what to do for the severe criminal, and in my contention it would be extremely unwise at this time, without   considerable study by the Home Office and their advisers, for us to move in the general progress of criminal justice which has been occurring in this country by passing this Bill. What are the arguments which are advanced against the death penalty? First, it is suggested that there may be a miscarriage of justice. Although this case was strongly argued by a number of authors some years ago in a variety of books, this is unproven. If we accept that there is any purpose in God's creation of this Universe, there must be a purpose in even taking of life such as this. I know that this is an unsatisfactory argument which can be accepted only if we believe in something beyond and greater than the life which we live here. The second argument is that hanging is barbaric. This could be accepted, and I draw the attention of all hon. Members who have been reading the Royal Commission's Report to paragraph 749 in which the Commission stated—in 1953—that there were other, more humane methods of dealing with a convicted criminal. Perhaps the advances in anaesthetics, for example, could lead to a much more humane method of disposing of those in society we no longer wish to keep. I believe that the time has approached when it would be possible to dispose of people in a much less barbarous manner, and I feel that advice on these lines could be provided to the Home Office by expert medical opinion. The third argument which is advanced is that there is a sanctity of human life. I agree entirely. This sanctity of human life has been mentioned as a case for the abolition of the death penalty. I believe that it can also be advanced for keeping the death penalty for certain types of murder, because the sanctity of life for which I care most is that of the innocent men, women and children, who are killed in cold blood; the sanctity of life for which I care most is that of the police who have to look after us and to protect the community; and the sanctity of life for which I care most is that of the warders of these desperate criminals—criminals who have become bestial in some cases. I am sad to see the concern by so many abolitionists for the welfare of the murderer when they ignore the case for the protection of innocent men, women and children.
